---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2024-07-15 06:05:08 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Inferring Biological Networks by Sparse Identification of Nonlinear Dynamics</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="Mechanistic dynamical models allow us to study the behavior of complex biological systems. They can provide an objective and quantitative understanding that would be difficult to achieve through other means. However, the systematic development of these models is a non-trivial exercise and an open problem in computational biology. Currently, many research efforts are focused on model discovery, i.e. automating the development of interpretable models from data. One of the main frameworks is sparse regression, where the sparse identification of nonlinear dynamics (SINDy) algorithm and its variants have enjoyed great success. SINDy-PI is an extension which allows the discovery of rational nonlinear terms, thus enabling the identification of kinetic functions common in biochemical networks, such as Michaelis-Menten. SINDy-PI also pays special attention to the recovery of parsimonious models (Occam’s razor). Here we focus on biological models composed of sets of deterministic nonlinear ordinary differential equations. We present a methodology that, combined with SINDy-PI, allows the automatic discovery of structurally identifiable and observable models which are also mechanistically interpretable. The lack of structural identifiability and observability makes it impossible to uniquely infer parameter and state variables, which can compromise the usefulness of a model by distorting its mechanistic significance and hampering its ability to produce biological insights. We illustrate the performance of our method with six case studies. We find that, despite enforcing sparsity, SINDy-PI sometimes yields models that are unidentifiable. In these cases we show how our method transforms their equations in order to obtain a structurally identifiable and observable model which is also interpretable. Author summary Dynamical models provide a quantitative understanding of complex biological systems. Since their development is far from trivial, in recent years many research efforts focus on obtaining these models automatically from data. One of the most effective approaches is based on implicit sparse regression. This technique is able to infer biochemical networks with kinetic functions containing rational nonlinear terms. However, as we show here, one limitation is that it may yield models that are unidentifiable. These features may lead to inaccurate mechanistic interpretations and wrong biological insights. To overcome this limitation, we propose an integrated methodology that applies additional procedures in order to ensure that the discovered models are structurally identifiable, observable, and interpretable. We demonstrate our method with six challenging case studies of increasing model complexity.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/9a935f921441c1d39252f9097a4b7db51e06ede4" target='_blank'>Distilling identifiable and interpretable dynamic models from biological data</a></td>
          <td>
            Gemma Massonis, A. F. Villaverde, J. Banga
          </td>
          <td>2023-03-15</td>
          <td>PLOS Computational Biology</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>54</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="High-throughput data acquisition in synthetic biology leads to an abundance of data that need to be processed and aggregated into useful biological models. Building dynamical models based on this wealth of data is of paramount importance to understand and optimize designs of synthetic biology constructs. However, building models manually for each data set is inconvenient and might become infeasible for highly complex synthetic systems. In this paper, we present state-of-the-art system identification techniques and combine them with chemical reaction network theory (CRNT) to generate dynamic models automatically. On the system identification side, Sparse Bayesian Learning offers methods to learn from data the sparsest set of dictionary functions necessary to capture the dynamics of the system into ODE models; on the CRNT side, building on such sparse ODE models, all possible network structures within a given parameter uncertainty region can be computed. Additionally, the system identification process can be complemented with constraints on the parameters to, for example, enforce stability or non-negativity-thus offering relevant physical constraints over the possible network structures. In this way, the wealth of data can be translated into biologically relevant network structures, which then steers the data acquisition, thereby providing a vital step for closed-loop system identification.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/4fc5648a33fd287d34439fb1d94e6a3550dced02" target='_blank'>Characterization of Biologically Relevant Network Structures form Time-series Data</a></td>
          <td>
            Z. Tuza, G. Stan
          </td>
          <td>2018-09-24</td>
          <td>2018 IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC)</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>35</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Reconstruction of biochemical reaction networks (BRN) and genetic regulatory networks (GRN) in particular is a central topic in systems biology which raises crucial theoretical challenges in system identification. Nonlinear Ordinary Differential Equations (ODEs) that involve polynomial and rational functions are typically used to model biochemical reaction networks. Such nonlinear models make the problem of determining the connectivity of biochemical networks from time-series experimental data quite difficult. In this paper, we present a network reconstruction algorithm that can deal with ODE model descriptions containing polynomial and rational functions. Rather than identifying the parameters of linear or nonlinear ODEs characterised by pre-defined equation structures, our methodology allows us to determine the nonlinear ODEs structure together with their associated parameters. To solve the network reconstruction problem, we cast it as a compressive sensing (CS) problem and use sparse Bayesian learning (SBL) algorithms as a computationally efficient and robust way to obtain its solution.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/fe99d10da6e29a5300354f92dab476490ec6f3ef" target='_blank'>Reconstruction of arbitrary biochemical reaction networks: A compressive sensing approach</a></td>
          <td>
            W. Pan, Ye Yuan, G. Stan
          </td>
          <td>2012-05-08</td>
          <td>2012 IEEE 51st IEEE Conference on Decision and Control (CDC)</td>
          <td>33</td>
          <td>35</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c7d8c73a530880d1f4ea37dc48dd6a25e338239a" target='_blank'>Inferring sparse networks for noisy transient processes</a></td>
          <td>
            H. M. Tran, S. Bukkapatnam
          </td>
          <td>2016-02-26</td>
          <td>Scientific Reports</td>
          <td>6</td>
          <td>34</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="It is hard to identify nonlinear biological models strictly from data, with results that are often sensitive to experimental conditions. Automated experimental workflows and liquid handling enables unprecedented throughput, as well as the capacity to generate extremely large datasets. We seek to develop generalized identifiability conditions for informing the design of automated experiments to discover predictive nonlinear biological models. For linear systems, identifiability is characterized by persistence of excitation conditions. For nonlinear systems, no such persistence of excitation conditions exist. We use the input-Koopman operator method to model nonlinear systems and derive identifiability conditions for open-loop systems initialized from a single initial condition. We show that nonlinear identifiability is intrinsically tied to the rank of a given dataset’s power spectral density, transformed through the lifted Koopman observable space. We illustrate these identifiability conditions with a simulated synthetic gene circuit model, the repressilator. We illustrate how rank degeneracy in datasets results in overfitted nonlinear models of the repressilator, resulting in poor predictive accuracy. Our findings provide novel experimental design criteria for discovery of globally predictive nonlinear models of biological phenomena.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/d1a0eb601192ddc63263a7a8fb974af0db52db2c" target='_blank'>Koopman Operators for Generalized Persistence of Excitation Conditions for Nonlinear Systems</a></td>
          <td>
            N. Boddupalli, A. Hasnain, S. Nandanoori, Enoch Yeung
          </td>
          <td>2019-06-25</td>
          <td>2019 IEEE 58th Conference on Decision and Control (CDC)</td>
          <td>5</td>
          <td>17</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e6f0a85009481dcfd93aaa43ed3f980e5033b0d8" target='_blank'>Learning sparse nonlinear dynamics via mixed-integer optimization</a></td>
          <td>
            D. Bertsimas, Wes Gurnee
          </td>
          <td>2022-06-01</td>
          <td>Nonlinear Dynamics</td>
          <td>26</td>
          <td>90</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Systems biology is a new discipline built upon the premise that an understanding of how cells and organisms carry out their functions cannot be gained by looking at cellular components in isolation. Instead, consideration of the interplay between the parts of systems is indispensable for analyzing, modeling, and predicting systems' behavior. Studying biological processes under this premise, systems biology combines experimental techniques and computational methods in order to construct predictive models. Both in building and utilizing models of biological systems, inverse problems arise at several occasions, for example, (i) when experimental time series and steady state data are used to construct biochemical reaction networks, (ii) when model parameters are identified that capture underlying mechanisms or (iii) when desired qualitative behavior such as bistability or limit cycle oscillations is engineered by proper choices of parameter combinations. In this paper we review principles of the modeling process in systems biology and illustrate the ill-posedness and regularization of parameter identification problems in that context. Furthermore, we discuss the methodology of qualitative inverse problems and demonstrate how sparsity enforcing regularization allows the determination of key reaction mechanisms underlying the qualitative behavior.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/fee3f9a238cbcb13dd1cd858e1734538018aa1aa" target='_blank'>Inverse problems in systems biology</a></td>
          <td>
            H. Engl, Christoph Flamm, P. Kügler, James Lu, S. Müller, P. Schuster
          </td>
          <td>2009-12-01</td>
          <td>Inverse Problems</td>
          <td>135</td>
          <td>48</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/1626b462b65d4084a24fb31c4e4ca3fc212a307a" target='_blank'>Set-base dynamical parameter estimation and model invalidation for biochemical reaction networks</a></td>
          <td>
            Philipp Rumschinski, S. Borchers, S. Bosio, R. Weismantel, R. Findeisen
          </td>
          <td>2010-05-25</td>
          <td>BMC Systems Biology</td>
          <td>67</td>
          <td>47</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>