---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2024-07-15 06:04:51 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Large Language Models Are Zero-Shot Time Series Forecasters</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="We introduce Chronos, a simple yet effective framework for pretrained probabilistic time series models. Chronos tokenizes time series values using scaling and quantization into a fixed vocabulary and trains existing transformer-based language model architectures on these tokenized time series via the cross-entropy loss. We pretrained Chronos models based on the T5 family (ranging from 20M to 710M parameters) on a large collection of publicly available datasets, complemented by a synthetic dataset that we generated via Gaussian processes to improve generalization. In a comprehensive benchmark consisting of 42 datasets, and comprising both classical local models and deep learning methods, we show that Chronos models: (a) significantly outperform other methods on datasets that were part of the training corpus; and (b) have comparable and occasionally superior zero-shot performance on new datasets, relative to methods that were trained specifically on them. Our results demonstrate that Chronos models can leverage time series data from diverse domains to improve zero-shot accuracy on unseen forecasting tasks, positioning pretrained models as a viable tool to greatly simplify forecasting pipelines.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/4fb78450650894091b0a55b5504a8b0a6f3dec37" target='_blank'>Chronos: Learning the Language of Time Series</a></td>
          <td>
            Abdul Fatir Ansari, Lorenzo Stella, Caner Turkmen, Xiyuan Zhang, Pedro Mercado, Huibin Shen, Oleksandr Shchur, Syama Sundar Rangapuram, Sebastian Pineda Arango, Shubham Kapoor, Jasper Zschiegner, Danielle C. Maddix, Michael W. Mahoney, Kari Torkkola, Andrew Gordon Wilson, Michael Bohlke-Schneider, Yuyang Wang
          </td>
          <td>2024-03-12</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>21</td>
          <td>18</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Foundation models of time series have not been fully developed due to the limited availability of time series corpora and the underexploration of scalable pre-training. Based on the similar sequential formulation of time series and natural language, increasing research demonstrates the feasibility of leveraging large language models (LLM) for time series. Nevertheless, the inherent autoregressive property and decoder-only architecture of LLMs have not been fully considered, resulting in insufficient utilization of LLM abilities. To further exploit the general-purpose token transition and multi-step generation ability of large language models, we propose AutoTimes to repurpose LLMs as autoregressive time series forecasters, which independently projects time series segments into the embedding space and autoregressively generates future predictions with arbitrary lengths. Compatible with any decoder-only LLMs, the consequent forecaster exhibits the flexibility of the lookback length and scalability of the LLM size. Further, we formulate time series as prompts, extending the context for prediction beyond the lookback window, termed in-context forecasting. By adopting textual timestamps as position embeddings, AutoTimes integrates multimodality for multivariate scenarios. Empirically, AutoTimes achieves state-of-the-art with 0.1% trainable parameters and over 5 times training/inference speedup compared to advanced LLM-based forecasters.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/d488445bb2bf6719bc48a4d39bd906116274abda" target='_blank'>AutoTimes: Autoregressive Time Series Forecasters via Large Language Models</a></td>
          <td>
            Yong Liu, Guo Qin, Xiangdong Huang, Jianmin Wang, Mingsheng Long
          </td>
          <td>2024-02-04</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>65</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Large language models (LLMs) are being applied to time series tasks, particularly time series forecasting. However, are language models actually useful for time series? After a series of ablation studies on three recent and popular LLM-based time series forecasting methods, we find that removing the LLM component or replacing it with a basic attention layer does not degrade the forecasting results -- in most cases the results even improved. We also find that despite their significant computational cost, pretrained LLMs do no better than models trained from scratch, do not represent the sequential dependencies in time series, and do not assist in few-shot settings. Additionally, we explore time series encoders and reveal that patching and attention structures perform similarly to state-of-the-art LLM-based forecasters.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/df0d604b8e8e3b2947d9865d735f204c08635012" target='_blank'>Are Language Models Actually Useful for Time Series Forecasting?</a></td>
          <td>
            Mingtian Tan, Mike A. Merrill, Vinayak Gupta, Tim Althoff, Tom Hartvigsen
          </td>
          <td>2024-06-22</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>3</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Deep learning has contributed remarkably to the advancement of time series analysis. Still, deep models can encounter performance bottlenecks in real-world data-scarce scenarios, which can be concealed due to the performance saturation with small models on current benchmarks. Meanwhile, large models have demonstrated great powers in these scenarios through large-scale pre-training. Continuous progress has been achieved with the emergence of large language models, exhibiting unprecedented abilities such as few-shot generalization, scalability, and task generality, which are however absent in small deep models. To change the status quo of training scenario-specific small models from scratch, this paper aims at the early development of large time series models (LTSM). During pre-training, we curate large-scale datasets with up to 1 billion time points, unify heterogeneous time series into single-series sequence (S3) format, and develop the GPT-style architecture toward LTSMs. To meet diverse application needs, we convert forecasting, imputation, and anomaly detection of time series into a unified generative task. The outcome of this study is a Time Series Transformer (Timer), which is generative pre-trained by next token prediction and adapted to various downstream tasks with promising capabilities as an LTSM. Code and datasets are available at: https://github.com/thuml/Large-Time-Series-Model.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/73f58b90697f957832f5090946894480849dea3a" target='_blank'>Timer: Generative Pre-trained Transformers Are Large Time Series Models</a></td>
          <td>
            Yong Liu, Haoran Zhang, Chenyu Li, Xiangdong Huang, Jianmin Wang, Mingsheng Long
          </td>
          <td>2024-02-04</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>7</td>
          <td>65</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="In this paper, we introduce TimeGPT, the first foundation model for time series, capable of generating accurate predictions for diverse datasets not seen during training. We evaluate our pre-trained model against established statistical, machine learning, and deep learning methods, demonstrating that TimeGPT zero-shot inference excels in performance, efficiency, and simplicity. Our study provides compelling evidence that insights from other domains of artificial intelligence can be effectively applied to time series analysis. We conclude that large-scale time series models offer an exciting opportunity to democratize access to precise predictions and reduce uncertainty by leveraging the capabilities of contemporary advancements in deep learning.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/32b15b02bd2640346678a773079c5d42190bbac9" target='_blank'>TimeGPT-1</a></td>
          <td>
            Azul Garza, Cristian Challu, Max Mergenthaler-Canseco
          </td>
          <td>2023-10-05</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>36</td>
          <td>1</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Predicting future values in multivariate time series is vital across various domains. This work explores the use of large language models (LLMs) for this task. However, LLMs typically handle one-dimensional data. We introduce MultiCast, a zero-shot LLM-based approach for multivariate time series forecasting. It allows LLMs to receive multivariate time series as input, through three novel token multiplexing solutions that effectively reduce dimensionality while preserving key repetitive patterns. Additionally, a quantization scheme helps LLMs to better learn these patterns, while significantly reducing token use for practical applications. We showcase the performance of our approach in terms of RMSE and execution time against state-of-the-art approaches on three real-world datasets.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/695663f05473270744f228e9beeb7578ceee7c68" target='_blank'>MultiCast: Zero-Shot Multivariate Time Series Forecasting Using LLMs</a></td>
          <td>
            Georgios Chatzigeorgakidis, Konstantinos Lentzos, Dimitrios Skoutas
          </td>
          <td>2024-05-13</td>
          <td>2024 IEEE 40th International Conference on Data Engineering Workshops (ICDEW)</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>7</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Time series forecasting holds significant importance in many real-world dynamic systems and has been extensively studied. Unlike natural language process (NLP) and computer vision (CV), where a single large model can tackle multiple tasks, models for time series forecasting are often specialized, necessitating distinct designs for different tasks and applications. While pre-trained foundation models have made impressive strides in NLP and CV, their development in time series domains has been constrained by data sparsity. Recent studies have revealed that large language models (LLMs) possess robust pattern recognition and reasoning abilities over complex sequences of tokens. However, the challenge remains in effectively aligning the modalities of time series data and natural language to leverage these capabilities. In this work, we present Time-LLM, a reprogramming framework to repurpose LLMs for general time series forecasting with the backbone language models kept intact. We begin by reprogramming the input time series with text prototypes before feeding it into the frozen LLM to align the two modalities. To augment the LLM's ability to reason with time series data, we propose Prompt-as-Prefix (PaP), which enriches the input context and directs the transformation of reprogrammed input patches. The transformed time series patches from the LLM are finally projected to obtain the forecasts. Our comprehensive evaluations demonstrate that Time-LLM is a powerful time series learner that outperforms state-of-the-art, specialized forecasting models. Moreover, Time-LLM excels in both few-shot and zero-shot learning scenarios.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/16f01c1b3ddd0b2abd5ddfe4fdb3f74767607277" target='_blank'>Time-LLM: Time Series Forecasting by Reprogramming Large Language Models</a></td>
          <td>
            Ming Jin, Shiyu Wang, Lintao Ma, Zhixuan Chu, James Y. Zhang, X. Shi, Pin-Yu Chen, Yuxuan Liang, Yuan-Fang Li, Shirui Pan, Qingsong Wen
          </td>
          <td>2023-10-03</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>103</td>
          <td>9</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Time-series forecasting (TSF) finds broad applications in real-world scenarios. Prompting off-the-shelf Large Language Models (LLMs) demonstrates strong zero-shot TSF capabilities while preserving computational efficiency. However, existing prompting methods oversimplify TSF as language next-token predictions, overlooking its dynamic nature and lack of integration with state-of-the-art prompt strategies such as Chain-of-Thought. Thus, we propose LSTPrompt, a novel approach for prompting LLMs in zero-shot TSF tasks. LSTPrompt decomposes TSF into short-term and long-term forecasting sub-tasks, tailoring prompts to each. LSTPrompt guides LLMs to regularly reassess forecasting mechanisms to enhance adaptability. Extensive evaluations demonstrate consistently better performance of LSTPrompt than existing prompting methods, and competitive results compared to foundation TSF models.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/bbf272d92b76cc5f1e6f793dcfeb5edd4abed7ef" target='_blank'>LSTPrompt: Large Language Models as Zero-Shot Time Series Forecasters by Long-Short-Term Prompting</a></td>
          <td>
            Haoxin Liu, Zhiyuan Zhao, Jindong Wang, Harshavardhan Kamarthi, B. A. Prakash
          </td>
          <td>2024-02-25</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>6</td>
          <td>7</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="This paper presents a novel study on harnessing Large Language Models' (LLMs) outstanding knowledge and reasoning abilities for explainable financial time series forecasting. The application of machine learning models to financial time series comes with several challenges, including the difficulty in cross-sequence reasoning and inference, the hurdle of incorporating multi-modal signals from historical news, financial knowledge graphs, etc., and the issue of interpreting and explaining the model results. In this paper, we focus on NASDAQ-100 stocks, making use of publicly accessible historical stock price data, company metadata, and historical economic/financial news. We conduct experiments to illustrate the potential of LLMs in offering a unified solution to the aforementioned challenges. Our experiments include trying zero-shot/few-shot inference with GPT-4 and instruction-based fine-tuning with a public LLM model Open LLaMA. We demonstrate our approach outperforms a few baselines, including the widely applied classic ARMA-GARCH model and a gradient-boosting tree model. Through the performance comparison results and a few examples, we find LLMs can make a well-thought decision by reasoning over information from both textual news and price time series and extracting insights, leveraging cross-sequence information, and utilizing the inherent knowledge embedded within the LLM. Additionally, we show that a publicly available LLM such as Open-LLaMA, after fine-tuning, can comprehend the instruction to generate explainable forecasts and achieve reasonable performance, albeit relatively inferior in comparison to GPT-4.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/681253389d2cc27103753749f4c7556699d55471" target='_blank'>Temporal Data Meets LLM - Explainable Financial Time Series Forecasting</a></td>
          <td>
            Xinli Yu, Zheng Chen, Yuan Ling, Shujing Dong, Zongying Liu, Yanbin Lu
          </td>
          <td>2023-06-19</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>30</td>
          <td>8</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Over the past years, foundation models have caused a paradigm shift in machine learning due to their unprecedented capabilities for zero-shot and few-shot generalization. However, despite the success of foundation models in modalities such as natural language processing and computer vision, the development of foundation models for time series forecasting has lagged behind. We present Lag-Llama, a general-purpose foundation model for univariate probabilistic time series forecasting based on a decoder-only transformer architecture that uses lags as covariates. Lag-Llama is pretrained on a large corpus of diverse time series data from several domains, and demonstrates strong zero-shot generalization capabilities compared to a wide range of forecasting models on downstream datasets across domains. Moreover, when fine-tuned on relatively small fractions of such previously unseen datasets, Lag-Llama achieves state-of-the-art performance, outperforming prior deep learning approaches, emerging as the best general-purpose model on average. Lag-Llama serves as a strong contender to the current state-of-art in time series forecasting and paves the way for future advancements in foundation models tailored to time series data.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/7c9bb230946cf48a7b9de97fd0281f42fbc51d31" target='_blank'>Lag-Llama: Towards Foundation Models for Probabilistic Time Series Forecasting</a></td>
          <td>
            Kashif Rasul, Arjun Ashok, Andrew Robert Williams, Arian Khorasani, George Adamopoulos, Rishika Bhagwatkar, Marin Bilovs, Hena Ghonia, N. Hassen, Anderson Schneider, Sahil Garg, Alexandre Drouin, Nicolas Chapados, Yuriy Nevmyvaka, I. Rish
          </td>
          <td>2023-10-12</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>12</td>
          <td>40</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>