---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2024-07-15 06:05:09 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Multidimensional Approximation of Nonlinear Dynamical Systems</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="Dynamic mode decomposition (DMD) has recently become a popular tool for the non-intrusive analysis of dynamical systems. Exploiting Proper Orthogonal Decomposition (POD) as a dimensionality reduction technique, DMD is able to approximate a dynamical system as a sum of spatial basis evolving linearly in time, thus enabling a better understanding of the physical phenomena and forecasting of future time instants. In this work we propose an extension of DMD to parameterized dynamical systems, focusing on the future forecasting of the output of interest in a parametric context. Initially all the snapshots -- for different parameters and different time instants -- are projected to a reduced space; then DMD, or one of its variants, is employed to approximate reduced snapshots for future time instants. Exploiting the low dimension of the reduced space the predicted reduced snapshots are then combined using regression techniques, thus enabling the possibility to approximate any untested parametric configuration in future. This paper depicts in detail the algorithmic core of this method; we also present and discuss three test cases for our algorithm: a simple dynamical system with a linear parameter dependency, a heat problem with nonlinear parameter dependency and a fluid dynamics problem with nonlinear parameter dependency.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/5d9dff526ccb5e2adfe18d9b694dd59f358abba5" target='_blank'>A dynamic mode decomposition extension for the forecasting of parametric dynamical systems</a></td>
          <td>
            Francesco Andreuzzi, N. Demo, G. Rozza
          </td>
          <td>2021-10-18</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>15</td>
          <td>49</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="In this paper we propose a model reduction and identification approach for multilinear dynamical system (MLDS) driven by noise. Compared to standard linear dynamical system based approaches which fit vector or matrix models to tensor time series, MLDS provides more natural, compact and accurate representation of tensorial data with fewer model parameters. The proposed algorithm for identifying MLDS parameters employs techniques from multilinear subspace learning: mulilinear Principal Component Analysis and multilinear regression. In addition compact array normal distribution is used to represent and estimate model error and output noise.We illustrate the benefits of the proposed approach on some real world datasets.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/5561ae4b2f4a727879648adb4db83440f42e682d" target='_blank'>Dynamic tensor time series modeling and analysis</a></td>
          <td>
            A. Surana, G. Patterson, I. Rajapakse
          </td>
          <td>2016-12-01</td>
          <td>2016 IEEE 55th Conference on Decision and Control (CDC)</td>
          <td>8</td>
          <td>24</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Higher-order dynamic mode decomposition (HODMD) has proved to be an efficient tool for the analysis and prediction of complex dynamical systems described by data-driven models. In the present paper, we propose a realization of HODMD that is based on the low-rank tensor decomposition of potentially high-dimensional datasets. It is used to compute the HODMD modes and eigenvalues to effectively reduce the computational complexity of the problem. The proposed extension also provides a more efficient realization of the ordinary dynamic mode decomposition with the use of the tensor-train decomposition. The high efficiency of the tensor-train-based HODMD (TT-HODMD) is illustrated by a few examples, including forecasting the load of a power system, which provides comparisons between TT-HODMD and HODMD with respect to the computing time and accuracy. The developed algorithm can be effectively used for the prediction of high-dimensional dynamical systems.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/fa34575fd2052a29d0493b06a68dcfcaf2202f96" target='_blank'>Tensor Train Based Higher Order Dynamic Mode Decomposition for Dynamical Systems</a></td>
          <td>
            Keren Li, S. Utyuzhnikov
          </td>
          <td>2023-04-11</td>
          <td>SSRN Electronic Journal</td>
          <td>2</td>
          <td>12</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/3b44db6efdb3999b65be446114afb04720e572cc" target='_blank'>Modeling of dynamical systems through deep learning</a></td>
          <td>
            P. Rajendra, V. Brahmajirao
          </td>
          <td>2020-11-22</td>
          <td>Biophysical Reviews</td>
          <td>31</td>
          <td>4</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="We propose a novel framework for learning a low-dimensional representation of data based on nonlinear dynamical systems, which we call dynamical dimension reduction (DDR). In the DDR model, each point is evolved via a nonlinear flow towards a lower-dimensional subspace; the projection onto the subspace gives the low-dimensional embedding. Training the model involves identifying the nonlinear flow and the subspace. Following the equation discovery method, we represent the vector field that defines the flow using a linear combination of dictionary elements, where each element is a pre-specified linear/nonlinear candidate function. A regularization term for the average total kinetic energy is also introduced and motivated by optimal transport theory. We prove that the resulting optimization problem is well-posed and establish several properties of the DDR method. We also show how the DDR method can be trained using a gradient-based optimization method, where the gradients are computed using the adjoint method from optimal control theory. The DDR method is implemented and compared on synthetic and example datasets to other dimension reductions methods, including PCA, t-SNE, and Umap.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/118d777ecdb359c32649da0f7576af150d51eab4" target='_blank'>A dynamical systems based framework for dimension reduction</a></td>
          <td>
            Ryeongkyung Yoon, B. Osting
          </td>
          <td>2022-04-18</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>19</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Data-driven modeling of dynamical systems has drawn much research attention recently, with the goal of approximating the underlying governing rules of a dynamical system with data-driven differential equations. Many real-world dynamical systems can be modeled as coupled oscillators, such as chemical reactors, ecological systems, integrated circuits, and mechanical systems. In those systems, the response can be described by coupled differential equations in which multi-dimensional state variables describe the timeevolution. However, in practice, the full set of state variables is often difficult or expensive to measure. This paper shows an attempt to develop a data-driven model for damped coupled oscillators from a mixed-mode response signal using neural differential equations. The univariate time-series data of the impulse response is first resampled into a multi-variate time-delayed embedding. A singular value decomposition is then applied to find the dominant orthogonal basis (oscillator modes). The decoupled modes are then modeled with parameterized neural differential equations. The unknown parameters can be learned from a segment of historical data. The proposed methodology is validated using impact testing data of an end mill in a machine tool spindle. The results demonstrate that the proposed method can effectively model damped coupled oscillators.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/3c2be3a0bfe6f96b628e8a558afde40d5056bcca" target='_blank'>Learning Data-Driven Model of Damped Coupled Oscillators from System Impulse Response</a></td>
          <td>
            Jacob Fabro, G. Vogl, Yongzhi Qu, Reese Eischens
          </td>
          <td>2022-10-28</td>
          <td>Annual Conference of the PHM Society</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>19</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Unsteady fluid systems are nonlinear high-dimensional dynamical systems that may exhibit multiple complex phenomena in both time and space. Reduced Order Modeling (ROM) of fluid flows has been an active research topic in the recent decade with the primary goal to decompose complex flows into a set of features most important for future state prediction and control, typically using a dimensionality reduction technique. In this work, a novel data-driven technique based on the power of deep neural networks for ROM of the unsteady fluid flows is introduced. An autoencoder network is used for nonlinear dimension reduction and feature extraction as an alternative for singular value decomposition (SVD). Then, the extracted features are used as an input for a long short-term memory (LSTM) network to predict the velocity field at future time instances. The proposed autoencoder-LSTM method is compared with non-intrusive reduced order models based on dynamic mode decomposition (DMD) and proper orthogonal decomposition. Moreover, an autoencoder-DMD algorithm is introduced for ROM, which uses the autoencoder network for dimensionality reduction rather than SVD rank truncation. The results show that the autoencoder-LSTM method is considerably capable of predicting fluid flow evolution, where higher values for the coefficient of determination R2 are obtained using autoencoder-LSTM compared to other models.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/5573dfa7d03ce1dd28c298ecb0966e06c2aae8d0" target='_blank'>Deep Neural Networks for Nonlinear Model Order Reduction of Unsteady Flows</a></td>
          <td>
            Hamidreza Eivazi, H. Veisi, M. H. Naderi, V. Esfahanian
          </td>
          <td>2020-07-02</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>125</td>
          <td>22</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/de3567866929da3a25754f93f917101717008833" target='_blank'>Nonlinear system identification with regularized Tensor Network B-splines</a></td>
          <td>
            Ridvan Karagoz, Kim Batselier
          </td>
          <td>2020-03-17</td>
          <td>Autom.</td>
          <td>17</td>
          <td>4</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/a9a3238808d20c5236a7c5f912c20e6dd729f88c" target='_blank'>Data-driven Reconstruction of Nonlinear Dynamics from Sparse Observation</a></td>
          <td>
            K. Yeo
          </td>
          <td>2019-06-10</td>
          <td>J. Comput. Phys.</td>
          <td>21</td>
          <td>18</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="In recent years, we have witnessed a significant shift toward ever-more complex and ever-larger-scale systems in the majority of the grand societal challenges tackled in applied sciences. The need to comprehend and predict the dynamics of complex systems have spurred developments in large-scale simulations and a multitude of methods across several disciplines. The goals of understanding and prediction in complex dynamical systems, however, have been hindered by high dimensionality, complexity and chaotic behaviours. Recent advances in data-driven techniques and machine-learning approaches have revolutionized how we model and analyse complex systems. The integration of these techniques with dynamical systems theory opens up opportunities to tackle previously unattainable challenges in modelling and prediction of dynamical systems. While data-driven prediction methods have made great strides in recent years, it is still necessary to develop new techniques to improve their applicability to a wider range of complex systems in science and engineering. This focus issue shares recent developments in the field of complex dynamical systems with emphasis on data-driven, data-assisted and artificial intelligence-based discovery of dynamical systems. This article is part of the theme issue 'Data-driven prediction in dynamical systems'.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e5aeec169d2c4d5e8e730a3c382006ba983b8709" target='_blank'>Data-driven prediction in dynamical systems: recent developments</a></td>
          <td>
            Amin Ghadami, B. Epureanu
          </td>
          <td>2022-06-20</td>
          <td>Philosophical transactions. Series A, Mathematical, physical, and engineering sciences</td>
          <td>41</td>
          <td>33</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>