---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2024-07-15 06:06:40 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Applied Koopmanism.</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="The field of dynamical systems is being transformed by the mathematical tools and algorithms emerging from modern computing and data science. First-principles derivations and asymptotic reductions are giving way to data-driven approaches that formulate models in operator theoretic or probabilistic frameworks. Koopman spectral theory has emerged as a dominant perspective over the past decade, in which nonlinear dynamics are represented in terms of an infinite-dimensional linear operator acting on the space of all possible measurement functions of the system. This linear representation of nonlinear dynamics has tremendous potential to enable the prediction, estimation, and control of nonlinear systems with standard textbook methods developed for linear systems. However, obtaining finite-dimensional coordinate systems and embeddings in which the dynamics appear approximately linear remains a central open challenge. The success of Koopman analysis is due primarily to three key factors: 1) there exists rigorous theory connecting it to classical geometric approaches for dynamical systems, 2) the approach is formulated in terms of measurements, making it ideal for leveraging big-data and machine learning techniques, and 3) simple, yet powerful numerical algorithms, such as the dynamic mode decomposition (DMD), have been developed and extended to reduce Koopman theory to practice in real-world applications. In this review, we provide an overview of modern Koopman operator theory, describing recent theoretical and algorithmic developments and highlighting these methods with a diverse range of applications. We also discuss key advances and challenges in the rapidly growing field of machine learning that are likely to drive future developments and significantly transform the theoretical landscape of dynamical systems.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/68b6ca45a588d538b36335b23f6969c960cf2e6e" target='_blank'>Modern Koopman Theory for Dynamical Systems</a></td>
          <td>
            S. Brunton, M. Budišić, E. Kaiser, J. Kutz
          </td>
          <td>2021-02-24</td>
          <td>SIAM Rev.</td>
          <td>269</td>
          <td>63</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/0f4b3d72f08bfadc076617850cc8a5e9395738d6" target='_blank'>Koopman Operator Dynamical Models: Learning, Analysis and Control</a></td>
          <td>
            Petar Bevanda, Stefan Sosnowski, S. Hirche
          </td>
          <td>2021-02-04</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>87</td>
          <td>47</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Introduction The end of the 20th century and the beginning of the 21st century has seen a revolutionary increase in the availability of data. Indeed, we are in the middle of the sensing revolution, where sensing is used in the broadest meaning of data acquisition. Most of this data goes unprocessed, unanalyzed, and, consequently, unused. This causes missed opportunities, in domains of vast societal importance—">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/90edc9f58779b5a32848edd2f5a8175642351b48" target='_blank'>Koopman Operator, Geometry, and Learning of Dynamical Systems</a></td>
          <td>
            I. Mezić
          </td>
          <td>2021-08-01</td>
          <td>Notices of the American Mathematical Society</td>
          <td>31</td>
          <td>49</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The Koopman operator is an useful analytical tool for studying dynamical systems -- both controlled and uncontrolled. For example, Koopman eigenfunctions can provide non-local stability information about the underlying dynamical system. Koopman representations of nonlinear systems are commonly calculated using machine learning methods, which seek to represent the Koopman eigenfunctions as a linear combinations of nonlinear state measurements. As such, it is important to understand whether, in principle, these eigenfunctions can be successfully obtained using machine learning and what eigenfunctions calculated in this way can tell us about the underlying system. To that end, this paper presents an analysis of continuity, stability and control limitations associated with Koopman eigenfunctions under minimal assumptions and provides a discussion that relates these properties to the ability to calculate Koopman representations with machine learning.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/719cbf3907aa6d2e8c2c623a9268d9ce86116223" target='_blank'>Learning Bounded Koopman Observables: Results on Stability, Continuity, and Controllability</a></td>
          <td>
            Craig Bakker, Thiagarajan Ramachandran, W. S. Rosenthal
          </td>
          <td>2020-04-30</td>
          <td>arXiv: Dynamical Systems</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>9</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="This work presents a data-driven framework for learning eigenfunctions of the Koopman operator geared toward prediction and control. The method relies on the richness of the spectrum of the Koopman operator in the transient, off-attractor, regime to construct a large number of eigenfunctions such that the state (or any other observable quantity of interest) is in the span of these eigenfunctions and hence predictable in a linear fashion. Once a predictor for the uncontrolled part of the system is obtained in this way, the incorporation of control is done through a multi-step prediction error minimization, carried out by a simple linear least-squares regression. The predictor so obtained is in the form of a linear controlled dynamical system and can be readily applied within the Koopman model predictive control framework of [11] to control nonlinear dynamical systems using linear model predictive control tools. The method is entirely data-driven and based purely on convex optimization, with no reliance on neural networks or other non-convex machine learning tools. The novel eigenfunction construction method is also analyzed theoretically, proving rigorously that the family of eigenfunctions obtained is rich enough to span the space of all continuous functions. In addition, the method is extended to construct generalized eigenfunctions that also give rise Koopman invariant subspaces and hence can be used for linear prediction. Detailed numerical examples demonstrate the approach, both for prediction and feedback control.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/97629699ff9e1e67b3f4f21cab64d42f3713bfa0" target='_blank'>Learning Koopman eigenfunctions for prediction and control: the transient case</a></td>
          <td>
            Milan Korda, I. Mezić
          </td>
          <td>2018-10-20</td>
          <td>arXiv: Optimization and Control</td>
          <td>7</td>
          <td>49</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="This article presents a novel data-driven framework for constructing eigenfunctions of the Koopman operator geared toward prediction and control. The method leverages the richness of the spectrum of the Koopman operator away from attractors to construct a set of eigenfunctions such that the state (or any other observable quantity of interest) is in the span of these eigenfunctions and hence predictable in a linear fashion. The eigenfunction construction is optimization-based with no dictionary selection required. Once a predictor for the uncontrolled part of the system is obtained in this way, the incorporation of control is done through a multistep prediction error minimization, carried out by a simple linear least-squares regression. The predictor so obtained is in the form of a linear controlled dynamical system and can be readily applied within the Koopman model predictive control (MPC) framework of (M. Korda and I. Mezić, 2018) to control nonlinear dynamical systems using linear MPC tools. The method is entirely data-driven and based predominantly on convex optimization. The novel eigenfunction construction method is also analyzed theoretically, proving rigorously that the family of eigenfunctions obtained is rich enough to span the space of all continuous functions. In addition, the method is extended to construct generalized eigenfunctions that also give rise Koopman invariant subspaces and hence can be used for linear prediction. Detailed numerical examples demonstrate the approach, both for prediction and feedback control.**Code for the numerical examples is available from https://homepages.laas.fr/mkorda/Eigfuns.zip.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/8f3d28be5557a1c87a80c3242d68bddb331b0cbc" target='_blank'>Optimal Construction of Koopman Eigenfunctions for Prediction and Control</a></td>
          <td>
            Milan Korda, I. Mezić
          </td>
          <td>2018-10-20</td>
          <td>IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control</td>
          <td>102</td>
          <td>49</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/75407116e515533f3cb11b6de14449f2933638ed" target='_blank'>Estimating Koopman operators for nonlinear dynamical systems: a nonparametric approach</a></td>
          <td>
            Francesco Zanini, A. Chiuso
          </td>
          <td>2021-03-25</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>4</td>
          <td>37</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="PyKoopman is a Python package for the data-driven approximation of the Koopman operator associated with a dynamical system. The Koopman operator is a principled linear embedding of nonlinear dynamics and facilitates the prediction, estimation, and control of strongly nonlinear dynamics using linear systems theory. In particular, PyKoopman provides tools for data-driven system identification for unforced and actuated systems that build on the equation-free dynamic mode decomposition (DMD) and its variants. In this work, we provide a brief description of the mathematical underpinnings of the Koopman operator, an overview and demonstration of the features implemented in PyKoopman (with code examples), practical advice for users, and a list of potential extensions to PyKoopman. Software is available at http://github.com/dynamicslab/pykoopman">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/5a220582e1ff56332a3800470ffdc25f663f9030" target='_blank'>PyKoopman: A Python Package for Data-Driven Approximation of the Koopman Operator</a></td>
          <td>
            Shaowu Pan, E. Kaiser, Brian M. de Silva, J. Kutz, S. Brunton
          </td>
          <td>2023-06-22</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>63</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="We consider the application of Koopman theory to nonlinear partial differential equations and data-driven spatio-temporal systems. We demonstrate that the observables chosen for constructing the Koopman operator are critical for enabling an accurate approximation to the nonlinear dynamics. If such observables can be found, then the dynamic mode decomposition (DMD) algorithm can be enacted to compute a finite-dimensional approximation of the Koopman operator, including its eigenfunctions, eigenvalues, and Koopman modes. We demonstrate simple rules of thumb for selecting a parsimonious set of observables that can greatly improve the approximation of the Koopman operator. Further, we show that the clear goal in selecting observables is to place the DMD eigenvalues on the imaginary axis, thus giving an objective function for observable selection. Judiciously chosen observables lead to physically interpretable spatio-temporal features of the complex system under consideration and provide a connection to manifold learning methods. Our method provides a valuable intermediate, yet interpretable, approximation to the Koopman operator that lies between the DMD method and the computationally intensive extended DMD (EDMD). We demonstrate the impact of observable selection, including kernel methods, and construction of the Koopman operator on several canonical nonlinear PDEs: Burgers’ equation, the nonlinear Schrödinger equation, the cubic-quintic Ginzburg-Landau equation, and a reaction-diffusion system. These examples serve to highlight the most pressing and critical challenge of Koopman theory: a principled way to select appropriate observables.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/1ce0ee1c0205e37c20daf33a5ad6eed187107614" target='_blank'>Applied Koopman Theory for Partial Differential Equations and Data-Driven Modeling of Spatio-Temporal Systems</a></td>
          <td>
            J. Kutz, J. Proctor, S. Brunton
          </td>
          <td>2018-12-02</td>
          <td>Complex.</td>
          <td>63</td>
          <td>63</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>