---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2024-07-15 06:06:00 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Molecular latent space simulators</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="Simulations are vital for understanding and predicting the evolution of complex molecular systems. However, despite advances in algorithms and special purpose hardware, accessing the timescales necessary to capture the structural evolution of bio-molecules remains a daunting task. In this work we present a novel framework to advance simulation timescales by up to three orders of magnitude, by learning the effective dynamics (LED) of molecular systems. LED augments the equation-free methodology by employing a probabilistic mapping between coarse and fine scales using mixture density network (MDN) autoencoders and evolves the non-Markovian latent dynamics using long short-term memory MDNs. We demonstrate the effectiveness of LED in the M\"ueller-Brown potential, the Trp Cage protein, and the alanine dipeptide. LED identifies explainable reduced-order representations and can generate, at any instant, the respective all-atom molecular trajectories. We believe that the proposed framework provides a dramatic increase to simulation capabilities and opens new horizons for the effective modeling of complex molecular systems.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/bab880c698b850ba18c08b9d93b73ffb538a417b" target='_blank'>Accelerated Simulations of Molecular Systems through Learning of their Effective Dynamics</a></td>
          <td>
            Pantelis R. Vlachas, J. Zavadlav, M. Praprotnik, P. Koumoutsakos
          </td>
          <td>2021-02-17</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>77</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Simulations are vital for understanding and predicting the evolution of complex molecular systems. However, despite advances in algorithms and special purpose hardware, accessing the time scales necessary to capture the structural evolution of biomolecules remains a daunting task. In this work, we present a novel framework to advance simulation time scales by up to 3 orders of magnitude by learning the effective dynamics (LED) of molecular systems. LED augments the equation-free methodology by employing a probabilistic mapping between coarse and fine scales using mixture density network (MDN) autoencoders and evolves the non-Markovian latent dynamics using long short-term memory MDNs. We demonstrate the effectiveness of LED in the Müller-Brown potential, the Trp cage protein, and the alanine dipeptide. LED identifies explainable reduced-order representations, i.e., collective variables, and can generate, at any instant, all-atom molecular trajectories consistent with the collective variables. We believe that the proposed framework provides a dramatic increase to simulation capabilities and opens new horizons for the effective modeling of complex molecular systems.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/68c0f4d535078674fd2ce738306eb72171a0677d" target='_blank'>Accelerated Simulations of Molecular Systems through Learning of Effective Dynamics.</a></td>
          <td>
            Pantelis R. Vlachas, J. Zavadlav, M. Praprotnik, P. Koumoutsakos
          </td>
          <td>2021-12-10</td>
          <td>Journal of chemical theory and computation</td>
          <td>28</td>
          <td>77</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Synthetic molecular dynamics (synMD) trajectories from learned generative models have been proposed as a useful addition to the biomolecular simulation toolbox. The computational expense of explicitly integrating the equations of motion in molecular dynamics currently is a severe limit on the number and length of trajectories which can be generated for complex systems. Approximate, but more computationally efficient, generative models can be used in place of explicit integration of the equations of motion, and can produce meaningful trajectories at greatly reduced computational cost. Here, we demonstrate a very simple synMD approach using a fine-grained Markov state model (MSM) with states mapped to specific atomistic configurations, which provides an exactly solvable reference. We anticipate this simple approach will enable rapid, effective testing of enhanced sampling algorithms in highly non-trivial models for both equilibrium and non-equilibrium problems. We demonstrate the use of a MSM to generate atomistic synMD trajectories for the fast-folding miniprotein Trp-cage, at a rate of over 200 milliseconds per day on a standard workstation. We employ a non-standard clustering for MSM generation that appears to better preserve kinetic properties at shorter lag times than a conventional MSM. We also show a parallelizable workflow that backmaps discrete synMD trajectories to full-coordinate representations at dynamic resolution for efficient analysis.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/d09f8cd520789fbd378a7bd90dcafc2544b6fcfc" target='_blank'>Simple synthetic molecular dynamics for efficient trajectory generation</a></td>
          <td>
            John D. Russo, D. Zuckerman
          </td>
          <td>2022-04-09</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>38</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The dynamics of biological systems, from proteins to cells to organisms, is complex and stochastic. To decipher their physical laws, we need to bridge between experimental observations and theoretical modeling. Thanks to progress in microscopy and tracking, there is today an abundance of experimental trajectories reflecting these dynamical laws. Inferring physical models from noisy and imperfect experimental data, however, is challenging. Because there are no inference methods that are robust and efficient, model reconstruction from experimental trajectories is a bottleneck to data-driven biophysics. In this Thesis, I present a set of tools developed to bridge this gap and permit robust and universal inference of stochastic dynamical models from experimental trajectories. These methods are rooted in an information-theoretical framework that quantifies how much can be inferred from trajectories that are short, partial and noisy. They permit the efficient inference of dynamical models for overdamped and underdamped Langevin systems, as well as the inference of entropy production rates. I finally present early applications of these techniques, as well as future research directions.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/36d5a9b10d628b238c485c3e97f0ad456101dedb" target='_blank'>Learning dynamical models from stochastic trajectories</a></td>
          <td>
            Pierre Ronceray
          </td>
          <td>2024-06-04</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>0</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="We propose a deep generative Markov State Model (DeepGenMSM) learning framework for inference of metastable dynamical systems and prediction of trajectories. After unsupervised training on time series data, the model contains (i) a probabilistic encoder that maps from high-dimensional configuration space to a small-sized vector indicating the membership to metastable (long-lived) states, (ii) a Markov chain that governs the transitions between metastable states and facilitates analysis of the long-time dynamics, and (iii) a generative part that samples the conditional distribution of configurations in the next time step. The model can be operated in a recursive fashion to generate trajectories to predict the system evolution from a defined starting state and propose new configurations. The DeepGenMSM is demonstrated to provide accurate estimates of the long-time kinetics and generate valid distributions for molecular dynamics (MD) benchmark systems. Remarkably, we show that DeepGenMSMs are able to make long time-steps in molecular configuration space and generate physically realistic structures in regions that were not seen in training data.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/5c6ee980b791766ba036cba282bcbcbcb2e5309e" target='_blank'>Deep Generative Markov State Models</a></td>
          <td>
            Hao Wu, Andreas Mardt, Luca Pasquali, F. Noé
          </td>
          <td>2018-05-19</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>53</td>
          <td>61</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/58912e2c2aaa77d1448d51e9d9460e06a5b924b9" target='_blank'>VAMPnets for deep learning of molecular kinetics</a></td>
          <td>
            Andreas Mardt, Luca Pasquali, Hao Wu, F. Noé
          </td>
          <td>2017-10-16</td>
          <td>Nature Communications</td>
          <td>461</td>
          <td>61</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Computing equilibrium states in condensed-matter many-body systems, such as solvated proteins, is a long-standing challenge. Lacking methods for generating statistically independent equilibrium samples in "one shot", vast computational effort is invested for simulating these system in small steps, e.g., using Molecular Dynamics. Combining deep learning and statistical mechanics, we here develop Boltzmann Generators, that are shown to generate unbiased one-shot equilibrium samples of representative condensed matter systems and proteins. Boltzmann Generators use neural networks to learn a coordinate transformation of the complex configurational equilibrium distribution to a distribution that can be easily sampled. Accurate computation of free energy differences and discovery of new configurations are demonstrated, providing a statistical mechanics tool that can avoid rare events during sampling without prior knowledge of reaction coordinates.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/9896835f050121358372254a9bce57ca117672c8" target='_blank'>Boltzmann Generators - Sampling Equilibrium States of Many-Body Systems with Deep Learning</a></td>
          <td>
            F. Noé, Hao Wu
          </td>
          <td>2018-12-04</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>24</td>
          <td>61</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/13b52cd927d3daa5c95528b987734d97474e790c" target='_blank'>Markov field models: Scaling molecular kinetics approaches to large molecular machines.</a></td>
          <td>
            Tim Hempel, Simon Olsson, Frank No'e
          </td>
          <td>2022-06-23</td>
          <td>Current opinion in structural biology</td>
          <td>6</td>
          <td>9</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="All-atom and coarse-grained molecular dynamics are two widely used computational tools to study the conformational states of proteins. Yet, these two simulation methods suffer from the fact that without access to supercomputing resources, the time and length scales at which these states become detectable are difficult to achieve. One alternative to such methods is based on encoding the atomistic trajectory of molecular dynamics as a shorthand version devoid of physical particles, and then learning to propagate the encoded trajectory through the use of artificial intelligence. Here we show that a simple textual representation of the frames of molecular dynamics trajectories as vectors of Ramachandran basin classes retains most of the structural information of the full atomistic representation of a protein in each frame, and can be used to generate equivalent atom-less trajectories suitable to train different types of generative neural networks. In turn, the trained generative models can be used to extend indefinitely the atom-less dynamics or to sample the conformational space of proteins from their representation in the models latent space. We define intuitively this methodology as molecular dynamics without molecules, and show that it enables to cover physically relevant states of proteins that are difficult to access with traditional molecular dynamics.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/31d62c95e128caa934ca6a6c5cd5c766c6a9d541" target='_blank'>Molecular dynamics without molecules: searching the conformational space of proteins with generative neural networks</a></td>
          <td>
            Gregory Schwing, L. Palese, Ariel Fern'andez, L. Schwiebert, D. Gatti
          </td>
          <td>2022-06-09</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>33</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>