---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2024-05-27 07:03:20 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Discovery of Physics From Data: Universal Laws and Discrepancies</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="Although deep learning has achieved remarkable success in various scientific machine learning applications, its opaque nature poses concerns regarding interpretability and generalization capabilities beyond the training data. Interpretability is crucial and often desired in modeling physical systems. Moreover, acquiring extensive datasets that encompass the entire range of input features is challenging in many physics-based learning tasks, leading to increased errors when encountering out-of-distribution (OOD) data. In this work, motivated by the field of functional data analysis (FDA), we propose generalized functional linear models as an interpretable surrogate for a trained deep learning model. We demonstrate that our model could be trained either based on a trained neural network (post-hoc interpretation) or directly from training data (interpretable operator learning). A library of generalized functional linear models with different kernel functions is considered and sparse regression is used to discover an interpretable surrogate model that could be analytically presented. We present test cases in solid mechanics, fluid mechanics, and transport. Our results demonstrate that our model can achieve comparable accuracy to deep learning and can improve OOD generalization while providing more transparency and interpretability. Our study underscores the significance of interpretable representation in scientific machine learning and showcases the potential of functional linear models as a tool for interpreting and generalizing deep learning.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/918bf58583062a86944e1d2237f9c43073a63219" target='_blank'>Interpreting and generalizing deep learning in physics-based problems with functional linear models</a></td>
          <td>
            Amirhossein Arzani, Lingxiao Yuan, P. Newell, Bei Wang
          </td>
          <td>2023-07-10</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>23</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/9e3d2af591bc08b5bb70d46ec15555eb8a300eee" target='_blank'>The transformative potential of machine learning for experiments in fluid mechanics</a></td>
          <td>
            R. Vinuesa, S. Brunton, B. McKeon
          </td>
          <td>2023-03-28</td>
          <td>Nature Reviews Physics</td>
          <td>19</td>
          <td>62</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Many tasks in fluid mechanics, such as design optimization and control, are challenging because fluids are nonlinear and exhibit a large range of scales in both space and time. This range of scales necessitates exceedingly high-dimensional measurements and computational discretization to resolve all relevant features, resulting in vast data sets and time-intensive computations. Indeed, fluid dynamics is one of the original big data fields, and many high-performance computing architectures, experimental measurement techniques, and advanced data processing and visualization algorithms were driven by decades of research in fluid mechanics. Machine learning constitutes a growing set of powerful techniques to extract patterns and build models from this data, complementing the existing theoretical, numerical, and experimental efforts in fluid mechanics. In this talk, we will explore current goals and opportunities for machine learning in fluid mechanics, and we will highlight a number of recent technical advances. Because fluid dynamics is central to transportation, health, and defense systems, we will emphasize the importance of machine learning solutions that are interpretable, explainable, generalizable, and that respect known physics.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/d173bf896eb57d3dfd65b28a4e1ddd62fb56707b" target='_blank'>Interpretable and Generalizable Machine Learning for Fluid Mechanics</a></td>
          <td>
            S. Brunton
          </td>
          <td>2019-11-25</td>
          <td>Bulletin of the American Physical Society</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>62</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="In recent years the fluid mechanics community has been intensely focused on pursuing solutions to its long-standing open problems by exploiting the new machine learning (ML) approaches. The exchange between ML and fluid mechanics is bringing important paybacks in both directions. The first is benefiting from new physics-inspired ML methods and a scientific playground to perform quantitative benchmarks, whilst the latter has been open to a large set of new tools inherently well suited to deal with big data, flexible in scope, and capable of revealing unknown correlations. A special case is the problem of modeling missing information of partially observable systems. The aim of this paper is to review some of the ML algorithms that are playing an important role in the current developments in this field, to uncover potential avenues, and to discuss the open challenges for applications to fluid mechanics.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/0e0c245001871af5a85bd3763be14184c9d23958" target='_blank'>Data reconstruction for complex flows using AI: Recent progress, obstacles, and perspectives</a></td>
          <td>
            M. Buzzicotti
          </td>
          <td>2023-03-29</td>
          <td>Europhysics Letters</td>
          <td>6</td>
          <td>14</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The large amount of data collected in complex physical systems allows machine learning models to solve a variety of prediction problems. However, the directly applied learning approaches, especially deep neural networks (DNN), are difficult to balance between universal approximation to minimize error and the interpretability to reveal underlying physical law. Their performance drops even faster with system unobservability (of measurements) issues due to limited measurements. In this paper, we construct the novel physics interpretable shallow-deep neural networks to integrate exact physical interpretation and universal approximation to address the concerns in previous methods. We show that not only the shallow layer of the structural DNN extracts interpretable physical features but also the designed physical-input convex property of the DNN guarantees the true physical function recovery. While input convexity conditions are strict, the proposed model retains the representation capability to universally approximate for the unobservable system regions. We demonstrate its effectiveness by experiments on physical systems. In particular, we implement the proposed model on the forward kinematics and complex power flow reproduction tasks, with or without observability issues. We show that, besides the physical interpretability, our model provides consistently smaller or similar prediction error for system identification, compared to the state-of-art learning methods.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/35ed2d2bb86ea6691e65470b04ab2cbdc0eba4ad" target='_blank'>Physics Interpretable Shallow-Deep Neural Networks for Physical System Identification with Unobservability</a></td>
          <td>
            Jingyi Yuan, Yang Weng
          </td>
          <td>2021-12-01</td>
          <td>2021 IEEE International Conference on Data Mining (ICDM)</td>
          <td>5</td>
          <td>27</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Process-based models of dynamical systems are often used to study engineering and environmental systems. Despite their extensive use, these models have several well-known limitations due to incomplete or inaccurate representations of the physical processes being modeled. Given rapid data growth due to advances in sensor technologies, there is a tremendous opportunity to systematically advance modeling in these domains by using machine learning (ML) methods. However, capturing this opportunity is contingent on a paradigm shift in data-intensive scientific discovery since the “black box” use of ML often leads to serious false discoveries in scientific applications. Because the hypothesis space of scientific applications is often complex and exponentially large, an uninformed data-driven search can easily select a highly complex model that is neither generalizable nor physically interpretable, resulting in the discovery of spurious relationships, predictors, and patterns. This problem becomes worse when there is a scarcity of labeled samples, which is quite common in science and engineering domains. In this research, we will develop a novel methodology for combining process-based models with state-of-the-art machine learning models to leverage their complementary strengths. Our objective is to develop innovative process-guided deep learning models to better capture the dynamics in scientific systems and advance the understanding of underlying physical processes. Effective representation of physical processes will require development of novel abstractions and architectures that can simulate these processes that may be evolving and interacting at multiple scales. In addition, the optimization process to produce an ML model will have to consider not just accuracy (i.e., how well the output matches the observations) but also its correctness from a physical perspective (i.e., physical consistency). Leveraging physics, both directly (e.g., by incorporating fundamental physical laws), and indirectly (e.g., as embodied in mechanistic models), is the key to address limitations of traditional ML models: inability to generalize to unseen scenarios and need for massive amounts of training data. Incorporation of relevant physical constraints, such as conservation of mass and energy,">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/76eb14e99ed4547051bed0ed27050c46e3f317c8" target='_blank'>Physics-guided machine learning: A new paradigm for scientific knowledge discovery</a></td>
          <td>
            X. Jia
          </td>
          <td>2021-07-30</td>
          <td>Microscopy and Microanalysis</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>17</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Deep learning (DL) relies heavily on data, and the quality of data influences its performance significantly. However, obtaining high-quality, well-annotated datasets can be challenging or even impossible in many real-world applications, such as structural risk estimation and medical diagnosis. This presents a significant barrier to the practical implementation of DL in these fields. Physics-guided deep learning (PGDL) is a novel type of DL that can integrate physics laws to train neural networks. This can be applied to any systems that are controlled or governed by physics laws, such as mechanics, finance and medical applications. It has been demonstrated that, with the additional information provided by physics laws, PGDL achieves great accuracy and generalisation in the presence of data scarcity. This review provides a detailed examination of PGDL and offers a structured overview of its use in addressing data scarcity across various fields, including physics, engineering and medical applications. Moreover, the review identifies the current limitations and opportunities for PGDL in relation to data scarcity and offers a thorough discussion on the future prospects of PGDL.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/617617e190c6bb55b6ca20d618a318ed8f29f464" target='_blank'>Utilising physics-guided deep learning to overcome data scarcity</a></td>
          <td>
            Jinshuai Bai, Laith Alzubaidi, Qingxia Wang, E. Kuhl, Bennamoun, Yuantong T. Gu
          </td>
          <td>2022-11-24</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>2</td>
          <td>63</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/4f8a7257c9aa203bb7d824afdf31d0eddaf89a71" target='_blank'>Applying machine learning to study fluid mechanics</a></td>
          <td>
            S. Brunton
          </td>
          <td>2021-10-05</td>
          <td>Acta Mechanica Sinica</td>
          <td>61</td>
          <td>62</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The field of fluid mechanics is rapidly advancing, driven by unprecedented volumes of data from experiments, field measurements, and large-scale simulations at multiple spatiotemporal scales. Machine learning (ML) offers a wealth of techniques to extract information from data that can be translated into knowledge about the underlying fluid mechanics. Moreover, ML algorithms can augment domain knowledge and automate tasks related to flow control and optimization. This article presents an overview of past history, current developments, and emerging opportunities of ML for fluid mechanics. We outline fundamental ML methodologies and discuss their uses for understanding, modeling, optimizing, and controlling fluid flows. The strengths and limitations of these methods are addressed from the perspective of scientific inquiry that considers data as an inherent part of modeling, experiments, and simulations. ML provides a powerful information-processing framework that can augment, and possibly even transform, current lines of fluid mechanics research and industrial applications.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/4087e84fc695bb6433d0104ee94f9d7e9f4b7da5" target='_blank'>Machine Learning for Fluid Mechanics</a></td>
          <td>
            S. Brunton, B. R. Noack, P. Koumoutsakos
          </td>
          <td>2019-05-27</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>1587</td>
          <td>77</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>