---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2024-07-15 06:05:06 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Data-driven discovery of coordinates and governing equations</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="Significance Understanding dynamic constraints and balances in nature has facilitated rapid development of knowledge and enabled technology, including aircraft, combustion engines, satellites, and electrical power. This work develops a novel framework to discover governing equations underlying a dynamical system simply from data measurements, leveraging advances in sparsity techniques and machine learning. The resulting models are parsimonious, balancing model complexity with descriptive ability while avoiding overfitting. There are many critical data-driven problems, such as understanding cognition from neural recordings, inferring climate patterns, determining stability of financial markets, predicting and suppressing the spread of disease, and controlling turbulence for greener transportation and energy. With abundant data and elusive laws, data-driven discovery of dynamics will continue to play an important role in these efforts. Extracting governing equations from data is a central challenge in many diverse areas of science and engineering. Data are abundant whereas models often remain elusive, as in climate science, neuroscience, ecology, finance, and epidemiology, to name only a few examples. In this work, we combine sparsity-promoting techniques and machine learning with nonlinear dynamical systems to discover governing equations from noisy measurement data. The only assumption about the structure of the model is that there are only a few important terms that govern the dynamics, so that the equations are sparse in the space of possible functions; this assumption holds for many physical systems in an appropriate basis. In particular, we use sparse regression to determine the fewest terms in the dynamic governing equations required to accurately represent the data. This results in parsimonious models that balance accuracy with model complexity to avoid overfitting. We demonstrate the algorithm on a wide range of problems, from simple canonical systems, including linear and nonlinear oscillators and the chaotic Lorenz system, to the fluid vortex shedding behind an obstacle. The fluid example illustrates the ability of this method to discover the underlying dynamics of a system that took experts in the community nearly 30 years to resolve. We also show that this method generalizes to parameterized systems and systems that are time-varying or have external forcing.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/5d150cec2775f9bc863760448f14104cc8f42368" target='_blank'>Discovering governing equations from data by sparse identification of nonlinear dynamical systems</a></td>
          <td>
            S. Brunton, J. Proctor, J. Kutz
          </td>
          <td>2015-09-11</td>
          <td>Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences</td>
          <td>3108</td>
          <td>63</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e596988b1df3a0bc78bf72c0bfdb21c85eaab6c9" target='_blank'>Physics-informed learning of governing equations from scarce data</a></td>
          <td>
            Zhao Chen, Yang Liu, Hao Sun
          </td>
          <td>2020-05-05</td>
          <td>Nature Communications</td>
          <td>229</td>
          <td>12</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Harnessing data to discover the underlying governing laws or equations that describe the behavior of complex physical systems can significantly advance our modeling, simulation and understanding of such systems in various science and engineering disciplines. Recent advances in sparse identification show encouraging success in distilling closed-form governing equations from data for a wide range of nonlinear dynamical systems. However, the fundamental bottleneck of this approach lies in the robustness and scalability with respect to data scarcity and noise. This work introduces a novel physics-informed deep learning framework to discover governing partial differential equations (PDEs) from scarce and noisy data for nonlinear spatiotemporal systems. In particular, this approach seamlessly integrates the strengths of deep neural networks for rich representation learning, automatic differentiation and sparse regression to approximate the solution of system variables, compute essential derivatives, as well as identify the key derivative terms and parameters that form the structure and explicit expression of the PDEs. The efficacy and robustness of this method are demonstrated on discovering a variety of PDE systems with different levels of data scarcity and noise. The resulting computational framework shows the potential for closed-form model discovery in practical applications where large and accurate datasets are intractable to capture.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e2acd4a2bc6af5deb02f542846766868e3f1b180" target='_blank'>Deep learning of physical laws from scarce data</a></td>
          <td>
            Zhao Chen, Yang Liu, Hao Sun
          </td>
          <td>2020-05-05</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>19</td>
          <td>12</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/3b44db6efdb3999b65be446114afb04720e572cc" target='_blank'>Modeling of dynamical systems through deep learning</a></td>
          <td>
            P. Rajendra, V. Brahmajirao
          </td>
          <td>2020-11-22</td>
          <td>Biophysical Reviews</td>
          <td>31</td>
          <td>4</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Recent progress in autoencoder-based sparse identification of nonlinear dynamics (SINDy) under ℓ1 constraints allows joint discoveries of governing equations and latent coordinate systems from spatio-temporal data, including simulated video frames. However, it is challenging for ℓ1-based sparse inference to perform correct identification for real data due to the noisy measurements and often limited sample sizes. To address the data-driven discovery of physics in the low-data and high-noise regimes, we propose Bayesian SINDy autoencoders, which incorporate a hierarchical Bayesian Spike-and-slab Gaussian Lasso prior. Bayesian SINDy autoencoder enables the joint discovery of governing equations and coordinate systems with uncertainty estimate. To resolve the challenging computational tractability of the Bayesian hierarchical setting, we adapt an adaptive empirical Bayesian method with Stochastic Gradient Langevin Dynamics (SGLD) which gives a computationally tractable way of Bayesian posterior sampling within our framework. Bayesian SINDy autoencoder achieves better physics discovery with lower data and fewer training epochs, along with valid uncertainty quantification suggested by the experimental studies. The Bayesian SINDy autoencoder can be applied to real video data, withaccurate physics discovery which correctly identifies the governing equation and provides a close estimate for standard physics constants like gravity g, for example, in videos of a pendulum.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/ea1d48d41a95a8547506f807a1307a37ec05356e" target='_blank'>Bayesian autoencoders for data-driven discovery of coordinates, governing equations and fundamental constants</a></td>
          <td>
            Liyao (Mars) Gao, J. Kutz
          </td>
          <td>2022-11-19</td>
          <td>Proceedings of the Royal Society A</td>
          <td>9</td>
          <td>31</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Identifying governing equations for a dynamical system is a topic of critical interest across an array of disciplines, from mathematics to engineering to biology. Machine learning-specifically deep learning-techniques have shown their capabilities in approximating dynamics from data, but a shortcoming of traditional deep learning is that there is little insight into the underlying mapping beyond its numerical output for a given input. This limits their utility in analysis beyond simple prediction. Simultaneously, a number of strategies exist which identify models based on a fixed dictionary of basis functions, but most either require some intuition or insight about the system, or are susceptible to overfitting or a lack of parsimony. Here, we present a novel approach that combines the flexibility and accuracy of deep learning approaches with the utility of symbolic solutions: a deep neural network that generates a symbolic expression for the governing equations. We first describe the architecture for our model and then show the accuracy of our algorithm across a range of classical dynamical systems.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/eddffa1f2cf18c7ca4edbdaf01fd805f415aa4b8" target='_blank'>Symbolic regression via neural networks.</a></td>
          <td>
            N. Boddupalli, T. Matchen, J. Moehlis
          </td>
          <td>2023-08-01</td>
          <td>Chaos</td>
          <td>2</td>
          <td>37</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/1f18c5206491626d36c2271aaf491dbc945f6247" target='_blank'>Automatically discovering ordinary differential equations from data with sparse regression</a></td>
          <td>
            Kevin Egan, Weizhen Li, Rui Carvalho
          </td>
          <td>2024-01-09</td>
          <td>Communications Physics</td>
          <td>7</td>
          <td>1</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/899995e30820d657b2e2feb791025cd6b2027e22" target='_blank'>Discovering sparse interpretable dynamics from partial observations</a></td>
          <td>
            Peter Y. Lu, Joan Ariño Bernad, M. Soljačić
          </td>
          <td>2021-07-22</td>
          <td>Communications Physics</td>
          <td>17</td>
          <td>94</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Estimating governing equations from observed time-series data is crucial for understanding dynamical systems. From the perspective of system comprehension, the demand for accurate estimation and interpretable results has been particularly emphasized. Herein, we propose a novel data-driven method for estimating the governing equations of dynamical systems based on machine learning with high accuracy and interpretability. The proposed method enhances the estimation accuracy for dynamical systems using sparse modeling by incorporating physical constraints derived from Hamiltonian mechanics. Unlike conventional approaches used for estimating governing equations for dynamical systems, we employ a sparse representation of Hamiltonian, allowing for the estimation. Using noisy observational data, the proposed method demonstrates a capability to achieve accurate parameter estimation and extraction of essential nonlinear terms. In addition, it is shown that estimations based on energy conservation principles exhibit superior accuracy in long-term predictions. These results collectively indicate that the proposed method accurately estimates dynamical systems while maintaining interpretability.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/18c6dbc4e20d80b81497e8c444e6f9a9ee1acf36" target='_blank'>Sparse Estimation for Hamiltonian Mechanics</a></td>
          <td>
            Yuya Note, Masahito Watanabe, Hiroaki Yoshimura, Takaharu Yaguchi, Toshiaki Omori
          </td>
          <td>2024-03-25</td>
          <td>Mathematics</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>11</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Distilling analytical models from data has the potential to advance our understanding and prediction of nonlinear dynamics. Although discovery of governing equations based on observed system states (e.g., trajectory time series) has revealed success in a wide range of nonlinear dynamics, uncovering the closed-form equations directly from raw videos still remains an open challenge. To this end, we introduce a novel end-to-end unsupervised deep learning framework to uncover the mathematical structure of equations that governs the dynamics of moving objects in videos. Such an architecture consists of (1) an encoder-decoder network that learns low-dimensional spatial/pixel coordinates of the moving object, (2) a learnable Spatial-Physical Transformation component that creates mapping between the extracted spatial/pixel coordinates and the latent physical states of dynamics, and (3) a numerical integrator-based sparse regression module that uncovers the parsimonious closed-form governing equations of learned physical states and, meanwhile, serves as a constraint to the autoencoder. The efficacy of the proposed method is demonstrated by uncovering the governing equations of a variety of nonlinear dynamical systems depicted by moving objects in videos. The resulting computational framework enables discovery of parsimonious interpretable model in a flexible and accessible sensing environment where only videos are available.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/5ca657acba0ea3cba5a062c70eb5cb3a9aede95f" target='_blank'>Uncovering Closed-form Governing Equations of Nonlinear Dynamics from Videos</a></td>
          <td>
            Lele Luan, Yang Liu, Hao Sun
          </td>
          <td>2021-06-09</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>12</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>