---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2026-02-16 06:33:27 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Chaos as an intermittently forced linear system</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="Chaos is omnipresent in nature, and its understanding provides enormous social and economic benefits. However, the unpredictability of chaotic systems is a textbook concept due to their sensitivity to initial conditions, aperiodic behavior, fractal dimensions, nonlinearity, and strange attractors. In this work, we introduce, for the first time, chaotic learning, a novel multiscale topological paradigm that enables accurate predictions from chaotic systems. We show that seemingly random and unpredictable chaotic dynamics counterintuitively offer unprecedented quantitative predictions. Specifically, we devise multiscale topological Laplacians to embed real-world data into a family of interactive chaotic dynamical systems, modulate their dynamical behaviors, and enable the accurate prediction of the input data. As a proof of concept, we consider 28 datasets from four categories of realistic problems: 10 brain waves, four benchmark protein datasets, 13 single-cell RNA sequencing datasets, and an image dataset, as well as two distinct chaotic dynamical systems, namely the Lorenz and Rossler attractors. We demonstrate chaotic learning predictions of the physical properties from chaos. Our new chaotic learning paradigm profoundly changes the textbook perception of chaos and bridges topology, chaos, and learning for the first time.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/cae5f209c1429870b78c83a8a454a45041faea3a" target='_blank'>Machine learning predictions from unpredictable chaos</a></td>
          <td>
            Jian Jiang, Long Chen, Lu Ke, Bozheng Dou, Yueying Zhu, Yazhou Shi, Huahai Qiu, Ben-gong Zhang, Tianshou Zhou, Guo-Wei Wei
          </td>
          <td>2025-03-19</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>7</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Chaos is omnipresent in nature, and its understanding provides enormous social and economic benefits. However, the unpredictability of chaotic systems is a textbook concept due to their sensitivity to initial conditions, aperiodic behavior, fractal dimensions, nonlinearity, and strange attractors. In this work, we introduce, for the first time, chaotic learning, a novel multiscale topological paradigm that enables accurate predictions from chaotic systems. We show that seemingly random and unpredictable chaotic dynamics counterintuitively offer unprecedented quantitative predictions. Specifically, we devise multiscale topological Laplacians to embed real-world data into a family of interactive chaotic dynamical systems, modulate their dynamical behaviors, and enable the accurate prediction of the input data. As a proof of concept, we consider 28 datasets from four categories of realistic problems: 10 brain waves, four benchmark protein datasets, 13 single-cell RNA sequencing datasets, and an image dataset, as well as two distinct chaotic dynamical systems, namely the Lorenz and Rossler attractors. We demonstrate chaotic learning predictions of the physical properties from chaos. Our new chaotic learning paradigm profoundly changes the textbook perception of chaos and bridges topology, chaos, and learning for the first time.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/cae5f209c1429870b78c83a8a454a45041faea3a" target='_blank'>Machine learning predictions from unpredictable chaos</a></td>
          <td>
            Jian Jiang, Long Chen, Lu Ke, Bozheng Dou, Yueying Zhu, Yazhou Shi, Huahai Qiu, Ben-gong Zhang, Tianshou Zhou, Guo-Wei Wei
          </td>
          <td>2025-03-19</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>7</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Chaos is omnipresent in nature, and its understanding provides enormous social and economic benefits. However, the unpredictability of chaotic systems is a textbook concept due to their sensitivity to initial conditions, aperiodic behaviour, fractal dimensions, nonlinearity and strange attractors. In this work, we introduce, for the first time, chaotic learning, a novel multiscale topological paradigm that enables accurate predictions from chaotic systems. We show that seemingly random and unpredictable chaotic dynamics counterintuitively offer unprecedented quantitative predictions. Specifically, we devise multiscale topological Laplacians to embed real-world data into a family of interactive chaotic dynamical systems, modulate their dynamical behaviours and enable the accurate prediction of the input data. As a proof of concept, we consider 28 datasets from four categories of realistic problems: 10 brain waves, four benchmark protein datasets, 13 single-cell RNA sequencing datasets and an image dataset, as well as two distinct chaotic dynamical systems, namely the Lorenz and Rossler attractors. We demonstrate chaotic learning predictions of the physical properties from chaos. Our new chaotic learning paradigm profoundly changes the textbook perception of chaos and bridges topology, chaos and learning for the first time.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/0bd0fd75ccc151d87e364a53f314ca533e203c02" target='_blank'>Machine learning predictions from unpredictable chaos</a></td>
          <td>
            Jian Jiang, Long Chen, Lu Ke, Bozheng Dou, Yueying Zhu, Yazhou Shi, Huahai Qiu, Ben-gong Zhang, Tianshou Zhou, Guo-Wei Wei
          </td>
          <td>2025-10-01</td>
          <td>Journal of the Royal Society Interface</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>7</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="A central challenge in data-driven model discovery is the presence of hidden, or latent, variables that are not directly measured but are dynamically important. Takens’ theorem provides conditions for when it is possible to augment partial measurements with time delayed information, resulting in an attractor that is diffeomorphic to that of the original full-state system. This diffeomorphism is typically unknown, and learning the dynamics in the embedding space has remained an open challenge for decades. Here, we design a deep autoencoder network to learn a coordinate transformation from the delay embedded space into a new space, where it is possible to represent the dynamics in a sparse, closed form. We demonstrate this approach on the Lorenz, Rössler and Lotka–Volterra systems, as well as a Lorenz analogue from a video of a chaotic waterwheel experiment. This framework combines deep learning and the sparse identification of nonlinear dynamics methods to uncover interpretable models within effective coordinates.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/37b6820d40bb884a9ae4d32c2d57357d251edd49" target='_blank'>Discovering governing equations from partial measurements with deep delay autoencoders</a></td>
          <td>
            Joseph Bakarji, Kathleen P. Champion, J. Nathan Kutz, S. Brunton
          </td>
          <td>2022-01-13</td>
          <td>Proceedings of the Royal Society A</td>
          <td>111</td>
          <td>77</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Many complex phenomena, from weather systems to heartbeat rhythm patterns, are effectively modeled as low-dimensional dynamical systems. Such systems may behave chaotically under certain conditions, and so the ability to detect chaos based on empirical measurement is an important step in characterizing and predicting these processes. Classifying a system as chaotic usually requires estimating its largest Lyapunov exponent, which quantifies the average rate of convergence or divergence of initially close trajectories in state space, and for which a positive value is generally accepted as an operational definition of chaos. Estimating the largest Lyapunov exponent from observations of a process is especially challenging in systems affected by dynamical noise, which is the case for many models of real-world processes, in particular models of biological systems. We describe a novel method for estimating the largest Lyapunov exponent from data, based on training Deep Learning models on synthetically generated trajectories, and demonstrate that this method yields accurate and noise-robust predictions given relatively short inputs and across a range of different dynamical systems. Our method is unique in that it can analyze tree-shaped data, a ubiquitous topology in biological settings, and specifically in dynamics over lineages of cells or organisms. We also characterize the types of input information extracted by our models for their predictions, allowing for a deeper understanding into the different ways by which chaos can be analyzed in different topologies.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/9fb357e57624525f27224822502061cc8fb831e1" target='_blank'>Detecting chaos in lineage-trees: A deep learning approach</a></td>
          <td>
            H. Rappeport, Irit Levin Reisman, Naftali Tishby, N. Balaban
          </td>
          <td>2021-06-08</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>5</td>
          <td>57</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="A generally applicable robust data-driven network modeling strategy offers rapid means to predict and control complex systems. We propose a universal method for data-driven modeling of complex nonlinear dynamics from time-resolved snapshot data without prior knowledge. Complex nonlinear dynamics govern many fields of science and engineering. Data-driven dynamic modeling often assumes a low-dimensional subspace or manifold for the state. We liberate ourselves from this assumption by proposing cluster-based network modeling (CNM) bridging machine learning, network science, and statistical physics. CNM describes short- and long-term behavior and is fully automatable, as it does not rely on application-specific knowledge. CNM is demonstrated for the Lorenz attractor, ECG heartbeat signals, Kolmogorov flow, and a high-dimensional actuated turbulent boundary layer. Even the notoriously difficult modeling benchmark of rare events in the Kolmogorov flow is solved. This automatable universal data-driven representation of complex nonlinear dynamics complements and expands network connectivity science and promises new fast-track avenues to understand, estimate, predict, and control complex systems in all scientific fields.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b0c3d159c14b0488299269c3fd62da3b9f608709" target='_blank'>Cluster-based network modeling—From snapshots to complex dynamical systems</a></td>
          <td>
            Daniel Fernex, B. R. Noack, R. Semaan
          </td>
          <td>2021-06-01</td>
          <td>Science Advances</td>
          <td>71</td>
          <td>53</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/ac92729cc14a557727d0e9bb0c223aab0ff90b2c" target='_blank'>Nonlinear Science Leaps Forward … Again.</a></td>
          <td>
            S. Guastello
          </td>
          <td>2026-01-01</td>
          <td>Nonlinear dynamics, psychology, and life sciences</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>35</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="We propose a universal method for data-driven modeling of complex nonlinear dynamics from time-resolved snapshot data without prior knowledge. Complex nonlinear dynamics govern many fields of science and engineering. Data-driven dynamic modeling often assumes a low-dimensional subspace or manifold for the state. We liberate ourselves from this assumption by proposing cluster-based network modeling (CNM) bridging machine learning, network science, and statistical physics. CNM only assumes smoothness of the dynamics in the state space, robustly describes short- and long-term behavior and is fully automatable as it does not rely on application-specific knowledge. CNM is demonstrated for the Lorenz attractor, ECG heartbeat signals, Kolmogorov flow, and a high-dimensional actuated turbulent boundary layer. Even the notoriously difficult modeling benchmark of rare events in the Kolmogorov flow is solved. This automatable universal data-driven representation of complex nonlinear dynamics complements and expands network connectivity science and promises new fast-track avenues to understand, estimate, predict and control complex systems in all scientific fields.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/431ea60293afebbef92f45db017299dfe379fa1f" target='_blank'>Cluster-based network modeling -- automated robust modeling of complex dynamical systems</a></td>
          <td>
            Daniel Fernex, B. R. Noack, R. Semaan
          </td>
          <td>2020-10-30</td>
          <td>arXiv: Data Analysis, Statistics and Probability</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>53</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Chaotic dynamical systems (DS) are ubiquitous in nature and society. Often we are interested in reconstructing such systems from observed time series for prediction or mechanistic insight, where by reconstruction we mean learning geometrical and invariant temporal properties of the system in question (like attractors). However, training reconstruction algorithms like recurrent neural networks (RNNs) on such systems by gradient-descent based techniques faces severe challenges. This is mainly due to exploding gradients caused by the exponential divergence of trajectories in chaotic systems. Moreover, for (scientific) interpretability we wish to have as low dimensional reconstructions as possible, preferably in a model which is mathematically tractable. Here we report that a surprisingly simple modification of teacher forcing leads to provably strictly all-time bounded gradients in training on chaotic systems, and, when paired with a simple architectural rearrangement of a tractable RNN design, piecewise-linear RNNs (PLRNNs), allows for faithful reconstruction in spaces of at most the dimensionality of the observed system. We show on several DS that with these amendments we can reconstruct DS better than current SOTA algorithms, in much lower dimensions. Performance differences were particularly compelling on real world data with which most other methods severely struggled. This work thus led to a simple yet powerful DS reconstruction algorithm which is highly interpretable at the same time.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/6ca393ee5afbe0e876baae5e428724ffd090efc5" target='_blank'>Generalized Teacher Forcing for Learning Chaotic Dynamics</a></td>
          <td>
            F. Hess, Z. Monfared, Manuela Brenner, D. Durstewitz
          </td>
          <td>2023-06-07</td>
          <td>DBLP, ArXiv</td>
          <td>56</td>
          <td>40</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Complex systems are commonly modeled using nonlinear dynamical systems. These models are often high-dimensional and chaotic. An important goal in studying physical systems through the lens of mathematical models is to determine when the system undergoes changes in qualitative behavior. A detailed description of the dynamics can be difficult or impossible to obtain for high-dimensional and chaotic systems. Therefore, a more sensible goal is to recognize and mark transitions of a system between qualitatively different regimes of behavior. In practice, one is interested in developing techniques for detection of such transitions from sparse observations, possibly contaminated by noise. In this paper we develop a framework to accurately tag different regimes of complex systems based on topological features. In particular, our framework works with a high degree of success in picking out a cyclically orbiting regime from a stationary equilibrium regime in high-dimensional stochastic dynamical systems.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/4201cd896bbab7c98602be04bb744b6c470b0dfb" target='_blank'>Automatic recognition and tagging of topologically different regimes in dynamical systems</a></td>
          <td>
            Jesse Berwald, M. Gidea, Mikael Vejdemo-Johansson
          </td>
          <td>2013-12-09</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>39</td>
          <td>22</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>