---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2024-07-15 06:05:41 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Graph networks as learnable physics engines for inference and control</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="Reasoning about objects, relations, and physics is central to human intelligence, and a key goal of artificial intelligence. Here we introduce the interaction network, a model which can reason about how objects in complex systems interact, supporting dynamical predictions, as well as inferences about the abstract properties of the system. Our model takes graphs as input, performs object- and relation-centric reasoning in a way that is analogous to a simulation, and is implemented using deep neural networks. We evaluate its ability to reason about several challenging physical domains: n-body problems, rigid-body collision, and non-rigid dynamics. Our results show it can be trained to accurately simulate the physical trajectories of dozens of objects over thousands of time steps, estimate abstract quantities such as energy, and generalize automatically to systems with different numbers and configurations of objects and relations. Our interaction network implementation is the first general-purpose, learnable physics engine, and a powerful general framework for reasoning about object and relations in a wide variety of complex real-world domains.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/ae42c0cff384495683192b06bd985cdd7a54632a" target='_blank'>Interaction Networks for Learning about Objects, Relations and Physics</a></td>
          <td>
            P. Battaglia, Razvan Pascanu, Matthew Lai, Danilo Jimenez Rezende, K. Kavukcuoglu
          </td>
          <td>2016-12-01</td>
          <td>MAG, ArXiv, DBLP</td>
          <td>1293</td>
          <td>71</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Endowing robots with human-like physical reasoning abilities remains challenging. We argue that existing methods often disregard spatio-temporal relations and by using Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) that incorporate a relational inductive bias, we can shift the learning process towards exploiting relations. In this work, we learn action-conditional forward dynamics models of a simulated manipulation task from visual observations involving cluttered and irregularly shaped objects. We investigate two GNN approaches and empirically assess their capability to generalize to scenarios with novel and an increasing number of objects. The first, Graph Networks (GN) based approach, considers explicitly defined edge attributes and not only does it consistently underperform an auto-encoder baseline that we modified to predict future states, our results indicate how different edge attributes can significantly influence the predictions. Consequently, we develop the Auto-Predictor that does not rely on explicitly defined edge attributes. It outperforms the baseline and the GN-based models. Overall, our results show the sensitivity of GNN-based approaches to the task representation, the efficacy of relational inductive biases and advocate choosing lightweight approaches that implicitly reason about relations over ones that leave these decisions to human designers.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e67e8500a00f2dd22537101fa76f2a60f7f1416f" target='_blank'>Learning Visual Dynamics Models of Rigid Objects using Relational Inductive Biases</a></td>
          <td>
            Fábio Ferreira, Lin Shao, T. Asfour, J. Bohg
          </td>
          <td>2019-09-09</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>54</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Dynamical systems with interacting agents are universal in nature, commonly modeled by a graph of relationships between their constituents. Recently, various works have been presented to tackle the problem of inferring those relationships from the system trajectories via deep neural networks, but most of the studies assume binary or discrete types of interactions for simplicity. In the real world, the interaction kernels often involve continuous interaction strengths, which cannot be accurately approximated by discrete relations. In this work, we propose the relational attentive inference network (RAIN) to infer continuously weighted interaction graphs without any ground-truth interaction strengths. Our model employs a novel pairwise attention (PA) mechanism to refine the trajectory representations and a graph transformer to extract heterogeneous interaction weights for each pair of agents. We show that our RAIN model with the PA mechanism accurately infers continuous interaction strengths for simulated physical systems in an unsupervised manner. Further, RAIN with PA successfully predicts trajectories from motion capture data with an interpretable interaction graph, demonstrating the virtue of modeling unknown dynamics with continuous weights.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/4f27abca5ea9644dd572c0f9879fecac0e60e998" target='_blank'>Learning Heterogeneous Interaction Strengths by Trajectory Prediction with Graph Neural Network</a></td>
          <td>
            Seungwoong Ha, Hawoong Jeong
          </td>
          <td>2022-08-28</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>43</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Planning - the ability to analyze the structure of a problem in the large and decompose it into interrelated subproblems - is a hallmark of human intelligence. While deep reinforcement learning (RL) has shown great promise for solving relatively straightforward control tasks, it remains an open problem how to best incorporate planning into existing deep RL paradigms to handle increasingly complex environments. One prominent framework, Model-Based RL, learns a world model and plans using step-by-step virtual rollouts. This type of world model quickly diverges from reality when the planning horizon increases, thus struggling at long-horizon planning. How can we learn world models that endow agents with the ability to do temporally extended reasoning? In this work, we propose to learn graph-structured world models composed of sparse, multi-step transitions. We devise a novel algorithm to learn latent landmarks that are scattered (in terms of reachability) across the goal space as the nodes on the graph. In this same graph, the edges are the reachability estimates distilled from Q-functions. On a variety of high-dimensional continuous control tasks ranging from robotic manipulation to navigation, we demonstrate that our method, named L3P, significantly outperforms prior work, and is oftentimes the only method capable of leveraging both the robustness of model-free RL and generalization of graph-search algorithms. We believe our work is an important step towards scalable planning in reinforcement learning.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/5cf549e26b4dce19d5bc783de83047479ce6218a" target='_blank'>World Model as a Graph: Learning Latent Landmarks for Planning</a></td>
          <td>
            Lunjun Zhang, Ge Yang, Bradly C. Stadie
          </td>
          <td>2020-11-25</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>60</td>
          <td>11</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="World models for environments with many objects face a combinatorial explosion of states: as the number of objects increases, the number of possible arrangements grows exponentially. In this paper, we learn to generalize over robotic pick-and-place tasks using object-factored world models, which combat the combinatorial explosion by ensuring that predictions are equivariant to permutations of objects. Previous object-factored models were limited either by their inability to model actions, or by their inability to plan for complex manipulation tasks. We build on recent contrastive methods for training object-factored world models, which we extend to model continuous robot actions and to accurately predict the physics of robotic pick-and-place. To do so, we use a residual stack of graph neural networks that receive action information at multiple levels in both their node and edge neural networks. Crucially, our learned model can make predictions about tasks not represented in the training data. That is, we demonstrate successful zero-shot generalization to novel tasks, with only a minor decrease in model performance. Moreover, we show that an ensemble of our models can be used to plan for tasks involving up to 12 pick and place actions using heuristic search. We also demonstrate transfer to a physical robot.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/0fda02b32b9f509a025d843f09d6824de9680335" target='_blank'>Factored World Models for Zero-Shot Generalization in Robotic Manipulation</a></td>
          <td>
            Ondrej Biza, Thomas Kipf, David Klee, Robert W. Platt, Jan-Willem van de Meent, Lawson L. S. Wong
          </td>
          <td>2022-02-10</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>9</td>
          <td>25</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Intelligent agents need a physical understanding of the world to predict the impact of their actions in the future. While learning-based models of the environment dynamics have contributed to significant improvements in sample efficiency compared to model-free reinforcement learning algorithms, they typically fail to generalize to system states beyond the training data, while often grounding their predictions on non-interpretable latent variables. 
We introduce Interactive Differentiable Simulation (IDS), a differentiable physics engine, that allows for efficient, accurate inference of physical properties of rigid-body systems. Integrated into deep learning architectures, our model is able to accomplish system identification using visual input, leading to an interpretable model of the world whose parameters have physical meaning. We present experiments showing automatic task-based robot design and parameter estimation for nonlinear dynamical systems by automatically calculating gradients in IDS. When integrated into an adaptive model-predictive control algorithm, our approach exhibits orders of magnitude improvements in sample efficiency over model-free reinforcement learning algorithms on challenging nonlinear control domains.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/0910a3cf9813c41ea764c89584d2957efa1159a9" target='_blank'>Interactive Differentiable Simulation</a></td>
          <td>
            Eric Heiden, David Millard, Hejia Zhang, G. Sukhatme
          </td>
          <td>2019-05-01</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>46</td>
          <td>91</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="From just a glance, humans can make rich predictions about the future state of a wide range of physical systems. On the other hand, modern approaches from engineering, robotics, and graphics are often restricted to narrow domains and require direct measurements of the underlying states. We introduce the Visual Interaction Network, a general-purpose model for learning the dynamics of a physical system from raw visual observations. Our model consists of a perceptual front-end based on convolutional neural networks and a dynamics predictor based on interaction networks. Through joint training, the perceptual front-end learns to parse a dynamic visual scene into a set of factored latent object representations. The dynamics predictor learns to roll these states forward in time by computing their interactions and dynamics, producing a predicted physical trajectory of arbitrary length. We found that from just six input video frames the Visual Interaction Network can generate accurate future trajectories of hundreds of time steps on a wide range of physical systems. Our model can also be applied to scenes with invisible objects, inferring their future states from their effects on the visible objects, and can implicitly infer the unknown mass of objects. Our results demonstrate that the perceptual module and the object-based dynamics predictor module can induce factored latent representations that support accurate dynamical predictions. This work opens new opportunities for model-based decision-making and planning from raw sensory observations in complex physical environments.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/414ab203d8fc3ecfbf40d004960d3a4774830b48" target='_blank'>Visual Interaction Networks: Learning a Physics Simulator from Video</a></td>
          <td>
            Nicholas Watters, Daniel Zoran, T. Weber, P. Battaglia, Razvan Pascanu, A. Tacchetti
          </td>
          <td>2017-06-05</td>
          <td>MAG, ArXiv, DBLP</td>
          <td>254</td>
          <td>67</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="A structured understanding of our world in terms of objects, relations, and hierarchies is an important component of human cognition. Learning such a structured world model from raw sensory data remains a challenge. As a step towards this goal, we introduce Contrastively-trained Structured World Models (C-SWMs). C-SWMs utilize a contrastive approach for representation learning in environments with compositional structure. We structure each state embedding as a set of object representations and their relations, modeled by a graph neural network. This allows objects to be discovered from raw pixel observations without direct supervision as part of the learning process. We evaluate C-SWMs on compositional environments involving multiple interacting objects that can be manipulated independently by an agent, simple Atari games, and a multi-object physics simulation. Our experiments demonstrate that C-SWMs can overcome limitations of models based on pixel reconstruction and outperform typical representatives of this model class in highly structured environments, while learning interpretable object-based representations.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/19b924dd9121f01165276a7afb764cf394acb80b" target='_blank'>Contrastive Learning of Structured World Models</a></td>
          <td>
            Thomas Kipf, Elise van der Pol, M. Welling
          </td>
          <td>2019-11-27</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>248</td>
          <td>88</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="We introduce an approach for imposing physically motivated inductive biases on graph networks to learn interpretable representations and improved zero-shot generalization. Our experiments show that our graph network models, which implement this inductive bias, can learn message representations equivalent to the true force vector when trained on n-body gravitational and spring-like simulations. We use symbolic regression to fit explicit algebraic equations to our trained model's message function and recover the symbolic form of Newton's law of gravitation without prior knowledge. We also show that our model generalizes better at inference time to systems with more bodies than had been experienced during training. Our approach is extensible, in principle, to any unknown interaction law learned by a graph network, and offers a valuable technique for interpreting and inferring explicit causal theories about the world from implicit knowledge captured by deep learning.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/a6aad9ccdcb7674a3b7ab710f0a80d205834f847" target='_blank'>Learning Symbolic Physics with Graph Networks</a></td>
          <td>
            M. Cranmer, Rui Xu, P. Battaglia, S. Ho
          </td>
          <td>2019-09-12</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>77</td>
          <td>68</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>