---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2024-07-08 06:04:49 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Graph-Guided Network for Irregularly Sampled Multivariate Time Series</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="Real-world applications often involve irregular time series, for which the time intervals between successive observations are non-uniform. Irregularity across multiple features in a multi-variate time series further results in a different subset of features at any given time (i.e., asynchronicity). Existing pre-training schemes for time-series, however, often assume regularity of time series and make no special treatment of irregularity. We argue that such irregularity offers insight about domain property of the data—for example, frequency of hospital visits may signal patient health condition—that can guide representation learning. In this work, we propose PrimeNet to learn a self-supervised representation for irregular multivariate time-series. Specifically, we design a time sensitive contrastive learning and data reconstruction task to pre-train a model. Irregular time-series exhibits considerable variations in sampling density over time. Hence, our triplet generation strategy follows the density of the original data points, preserving its native irregularity. Moreover, the sampling density variation over time makes data reconstruction difficult for different regions. Therefore, we design a data masking technique that always masks a constant time duration to accommodate reconstruction for regions of different sampling density. We learn with these tasks using unlabeled data to build a pre-trained model and fine-tune on a downstream task with limited labeled data, in contrast with existing fully supervised approach for irregular time-series, requiring large amounts of labeled data. Experiment results show that PrimeNet significantly outperforms state-of-the-art methods on naturally irregular and asynchronous data from Healthcare and IoT applications for several downstream tasks, including classification, interpolation, and regression.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/70e5e9bd353d1b1e54b4eebd3a67b58026a13dff" target='_blank'>PrimeNet: Pre-training for Irregular Multivariate Time Series</a></td>
          <td>
            Ranak Roy Chowdhury, Jiacheng Li, Xiyuan Zhang, Dezhi Hong, Rajesh K. Gupta, Jingbo Shang
          </td>
          <td>2023-06-26</td>
          <td>DBLP</td>
          <td>8</td>
          <td>16</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Irregularly-sampled time series (ITS) are native to high-impact domains like healthcare, where measurements are collected over time at uneven intervals. However, for many classification problems, only small portions of long time series are often relevant to the class label. In this case, existing ITS models often fail to classify long series since they rely on careful imputation, which easily over- or under-samples the relevant regions. Using this insight, we then propose CAT, a model that classifies multivariate ITS by explicitly seeking highly-relevant portions of an input series' timeline. CAT achieves this by integrating three components: (1) A Moment Network learns to seek relevant moments in an ITS's continuous timeline using reinforcement learning. (2) A Receptor Network models the temporal dynamics of both observations and their timing localized around predicted moments. (3) A recurrent Transition Model models the sequence of transitions between these moments, cultivating a representation with which the series is classified. Using synthetic and real data, we find that CAT outperforms ten state-of-the-art methods by finding short signals in long irregular time series.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/6f0f354fc0a8f864d7646c41d06fdcbc65a8d55d" target='_blank'>Finding Short Signals in Long Irregular Time Series with Continuous-Time Attention Policy Networks</a></td>
          <td>
            Thomas Hartvigsen, Jidapa Thadajarassiri, Xiangnan Kong, Elke A. Rundensteiner
          </td>
          <td>2023-02-08</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>38</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Prevalent in many real-world settings such as healthcare, irregular time series are challenging to formulate predictions from. It is difficult to infer the value of a feature at any given time when observations are sporadic, as it could take on a range of values depending on when it was last observed. To characterize this uncertainty we present EDICT, a strategy that learns an evidential distribution over irregular time series in continuous time. This distribution enables well-calibrated and flexible inference of partially observed features at any time of interest, while expanding uncertainty temporally for sparse, irregular observations. We demonstrate that EDICT attains competitive performance on challenging time series classification tasks and enabling uncertainty-guided inference when encountering noisy data.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/5a4149fcbf11abc14e349a75f2e0672e876b7faf" target='_blank'>Continuous Time Evidential Distributions for Irregular Time Series</a></td>
          <td>
            Taylor W. Killian, Haoran Zhang, Thomas Hartvigsen, Ava P. Amini
          </td>
          <td>2023-07-25</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>12</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Irregularly sampled time series are increasingly prevalent, particularly in medical domains. While various specialized methods have been developed to handle these irregularities, effectively modeling their complex dynamics and pronounced sparsity remains a challenge. This paper introduces a novel perspective by converting irregularly sampled time series into line graph images, then utilizing powerful pre-trained vision transformers for time series classification in the same way as image classification. This method not only largely simplifies specialized algorithm designs but also presents the potential to serve as a universal framework for time series modeling. Remarkably, despite its simplicity, our approach outperforms state-of-the-art specialized algorithms on several popular healthcare and human activity datasets. Especially in the rigorous leave-sensors-out setting where a portion of variables is omitted during testing, our method exhibits strong robustness against varying degrees of missing observations, achieving an impressive improvement of 42.8% in absolute F1 score points over leading specialized baselines even with half the variables masked. Code and data are available at https://github.com/Leezekun/ViTST">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/3f4bd6e35eca865b0226f1bc0da9fc5f0dc948a8" target='_blank'>Time Series as Images: Vision Transformer for Irregularly Sampled Time Series</a></td>
          <td>
            Zekun Li, SHIYANG LI, Xifeng Yan
          </td>
          <td>2023-03-01</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>8</td>
          <td>65</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Irregularly sampled time series are increasingly prevalent, particularly in medical domains. While various specialized methods have been developed to handle these irregularities, effectively modeling their complex dynamics and pronounced sparsity remains a challenge. This paper introduces a novel perspective by converting irregularly sampled time series into line graph images, then utilizing powerful pre-trained vision transformers for time series classification in the same way as image classification. This method not only largely simplifies specialized algorithm designs but also presents the potential to serve as a universal framework for time series modeling. Remarkably, despite its simplicity, our approach outperforms state-of-the-art specialized algorithms on several popular healthcare and human activity datasets. Especially in the rigorous leave-sensors-out setting where a portion of variables is omitted during testing, our method exhibits strong robustness against varying degrees of missing observations, achieving an impressive improvement of 42.8% in absolute F1 score points over leading specialized baselines even with half the variables masked. Code and data are available at https://github.com/Leezekun/ViTST">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/3f4bd6e35eca865b0226f1bc0da9fc5f0dc948a8" target='_blank'>Time Series as Images: Vision Transformer for Irregularly Sampled Time Series</a></td>
          <td>
            Zekun Li, SHIYANG LI, Xifeng Yan
          </td>
          <td>2023-03-01</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>8</td>
          <td>65</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="To analyze multivariate time series, most previous methods assume regular subsampling of time series, where the interval between adjacent measurements and the number of samples remain unchanged. Practically, data collection systems could produce irregularly sampled time series due to sensor failures and interventions. However, existing methods designed for regularly sampled multivariate time series cannot directly handle irregularity owing to misalignment along both temporal and variate dimensions. To fill this gap, we propose Compatible Transformer (CoFormer), a transformer-based encoder to achieve comprehensive temporal-interaction feature learning for each individual sample in irregular multivariate time series. In CoFormer, we view each sample as a unique variate-time point and leverage intra-variate/inter-variate attentions to learn sample-wise temporal/interaction features based on intra-variate/inter-variate neighbors. With CoFormer as the core, we can analyze irregularly sampled multivariate time series for many downstream tasks, including classification and prediction. We conduct extensive experiments on 3 real-world datasets and validate that the proposed CoFormer significantly and consistently outperforms existing methods. Code will be avilable at https://github.com/MediaBrain-SJTU/CoFormer.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/f6f708484a85b2b96d6f6764724b950cab167bb7" target='_blank'>Compatible Transformer for Irregularly Sampled Multivariate Time Series</a></td>
          <td>
            Yuxi Wei, Juntong Peng, Tong He, Chenxin Xu, Jian Zhang, Shirui Pan, Siheng Chen
          </td>
          <td>2023-10-17</td>
          <td>2023 IEEE International Conference on Data Mining (ICDM)</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>8</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Irregularly-sampled time series occur in many domains including healthcare. They can be challenging to model because they do not naturally yield a fixed-dimensional representation as required by many standard machine learning models. In this paper, we consider irregular sampling from the perspective of missing data. We model observed irregularly-sampled time series data as a sequence of index-value pairs sampled from a continuous but unobserved function. We introduce an encoder-decoder framework for learning from such generic indexed sequences. We propose learning methods for this framework based on variational autoencoders and generative adversarial networks. For continuous irregularly-sampled time series, we introduce continuous convolutional layers that can efficiently interface with existing neural network architectures. Experiments show that our models are able to achieve competitive or better classification results on irregularly-sampled multivariate time series compared to recent RNN models while offering significantly faster training times.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/7651d6498f437e30d31e354933b93f52791b6542" target='_blank'>Learning from Irregularly-Sampled Time Series: A Missing Data Perspective</a></td>
          <td>
            Steven Cheng-Xian Li, Benjamin M Marlin
          </td>
          <td>2020-07-12</td>
          <td>MAG, DBLP, ArXiv</td>
          <td>45</td>
          <td>32</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="We consider a sequence of related multivariate time series learning tasks, such as predicting failures for different instances of a machine from time series of multi-sensor data, or activity recognition tasks over different individuals from multiple wearable sensors. We focus on two under-explored practical challenges arising in such settings: (i) Each task may have a different subset of sensors, i.e., providing different partial observations of the underlying ‘system’. This restriction can be due to different manufacturers in the former case, and people wearing more or less measurement devices in the latter (ii) We are not allowed to store or re-access data from a task once it has been observed at the task level. This may be due to privacy considerations in the case of people, or legal restrictions placed by machine owners. Nevertheless, we would like to (a) improve performance on subsequent tasks using experience from completed tasks as well as (b) continue to perform better on past tasks, e.g., update the model and improve predictions on even the first machine after learning from subsequently observed ones. We note that existing continual learning methods do not take into account variability in input dimensions arising due to different subsets of sensors being available across tasks, and struggle to adapt to such variable input dimensions (VID) tasks. In this work, we address this shortcoming of existing methods. To this end, we learn task-specific generative models and classifiers, and use these to augment data for target tasks. Since the input dimensions across tasks vary, we propose a novel conditioning module based on graph neural networks to aid a standard recurrent neural network. We evaluate the efficacy of the proposed approach on three publicly available datasets corresponding to two activity recognition tasks (classification) and one prognostics task (regression). We demonstrate that it is possible to significantly enhance the performance on future and previous tasks while learning continuously from VID tasks without storing data.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/72846d22118ef02bff11330dd28f408fde72d98b" target='_blank'>Continual Learning for Multivariate Time Series Tasks with Variable Input Dimensions</a></td>
          <td>
            Vibhor Gupta, Jyoti Narwariya, Pankaj Malhotra, L. Vig, Gautam M. Shroff
          </td>
          <td>2021-12-01</td>
          <td>2021 IEEE International Conference on Data Mining (ICDM)</td>
          <td>15</td>
          <td>27</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Multivariate time series (MTS) data are becoming increasingly ubiquitous in diverse domains, e.g., IoT systems, health informatics, and 5G networks. To obtain an effective representation of MTS data, it is not only essential to consider unpredictable dynamics and highly variable lengths of these data but also important to address the irregularities in the sampling rates of MTS. Existing parametric approaches rely on manual hyperparameter tuning and may cost a huge amount of labor effort. Therefore, it is desirable to learn the representation automatically and efficiently. To this end, we propose an autonomous representation learning approach for multivariate time series (TimeAutoML) with irregular sampling rates and variable lengths. As opposed to previous works, we first present a representation learning pipeline in which the configuration and hyperparameter optimization are fully automatic and can be tailored for various tasks, e.g., anomaly detection, clustering, etc. Next, a negative sample generation approach and an auxiliary classification task are developed and integrated within TimeAutoML to enhance its representation capability. Extensive empirical studies on real-world datasets demonstrate that the proposed TimeAutoML outperforms competing approaches on various tasks by a large margin. In fact, it achieves the best anomaly detection performance among all comparison algorithms on 78 out of all 85 UCR datasets, acquiring up to 20% performance improvement in terms of AUC score.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/60773c01dd3c76be0e1d3bc429cf474e5f9d8519" target='_blank'>TimeAutoML: Autonomous Representation Learning for Multivariate Irregularly Sampled Time Series</a></td>
          <td>
            Yang Jiao, Kai Yang, Shaoyu Dou, Pan Luo, Sijia Liu, Dongjin Song
          </td>
          <td>2020-10-04</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>6</td>
          <td>22</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>