---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2026-02-02 06:32:39 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>SINDy-PI: a robust algorithm for parallel implicit sparse identification of nonlinear dynamics</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="The autonomous distillation of physical laws only from data is of great interest in many scientific fields. Data-driven modeling frameworks that adopt sparse regression techniques, such as sparse identification of nonlinear dynamics (SINDy) and its modifications, are developed to resolve difficulties in extracting underlying dynamics from experimental data. However, SINDy faces certain difficulties when the dynamics contain rational functions. The Lagrangian is substantially more concise than the actual equations of motion, especially for complex systems, and it does not usually contain rational functions for mechanical systems. Few proposed methods proposed to date, such as Lagrangian-SINDy we have proposed recently, can extract the true form of the Lagrangian of dynamical systems from data; however, these methods are easily affected by noise as a fact. In this study, we developed an extended version of Lagrangian-SINDy (xL-SINDy) to obtain the Lagrangian of dynamical systems from noisy measurement data. We incorporated the concept of SINDy and used the proximal gradient method to obtain sparse Lagrangian expressions. Further, we demonstrated the effectiveness of xL-SINDy against different noise levels using four mechanical systems. In addition, we compared its performance with SINDy-PI (parallel, implicit) which is a latest robust variant of SINDy that can handle implicit dynamics and rational nonlinearities. The experimental results reveal that xL-SINDy is much more robust than the existing methods for extracting the governing equations of nonlinear mechanical systems from data with noise. We believe this contribution is significant toward noise-tolerant computational method for explicit dynamics law extraction from data.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/4cb7ffb5dfa4330c7fcc70afce6f8129c1699c42" target='_blank'>Sparse identification of Lagrangian for nonlinear dynamical systems via proximal gradient method</a></td>
          <td>
            Adam Purnomo, M. Hayashibe
          </td>
          <td>2022-09-04</td>
          <td>Scientific Reports</td>
          <td>10</td>
          <td>28</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Modern societies have an abundance of data yet good system models are rare. Unfortunately, many of the current system identification and machine learning techniques fail to generalize outside of the training set, producing models that violate basic physical laws. This work proposes a novel method for the Sparse Identification of Nonlinear Dynamics with Side Information (SINDy-SI). SINDy-SI is an iterative method that uses Sum-of-Squares (SOS) programming to learn optimally fitted models while guaranteeing that the learned model satisfies side information, such as symmetries and physical laws. Guided by the principle of Occam's razor, that the simplest or most regularized best fitted model is typically the superior choice, during each iteration SINDy-SI prunes the basis functions associated with small coefficients, yielding a sparse dynamical model upon termination. Through several numerical experiments we will show how the combination of side information constraints and sparse polynomial representation cultivates dynamical models that obey known physical laws while displaying impressive generalized performance beyond the training set.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/13a6b8f2d60ef8006dfe6e6bed42df96f773a323" target='_blank'>Sparse Identification of Nonlinear Dynamics with Side Information (SINDy-SI)</a></td>
          <td>
            Gabriel F. Machado, Morgan Jones
          </td>
          <td>2023-10-06</td>
          <td>2024 American Control Conference (ACC)</td>
          <td>6</td>
          <td>2</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Data-driven modeling frameworks that adopt sparse regression techniques, such as sparse identification of nonlinear dynamics (SINDy) and its modifications, are developed to resolve difficulties in extracting underlying dynamics from experimental data. In contrast to neural-network-based methods, these methods are designed to obtain white-box analytical models. In this work, we incorporate the concept of SINDy and knowledge in the field of classical mechanics to identify interpretable and sparse expressions of total energy and the Lagrangian that shelters the hidden dynamics. Moreover, our method (hereafter referred as Lagrangian-SINDy) is developed to use knowledge of simple systems that form the system being analyzed to ensure the likelihood of correct results and to improve the learning pace. Lagrangian-SINDy is highly accurate in discovering interpretable dynamics via energy-related physical quantities. Its performance is validated with three popular multi-DOF nonlinear dynamical systems, namely the spherical pendulum, double pendulum and cart-pendulum system. Comparisons with other SINDy-based methods are made and Lagrangian-SINDy is found to provide the most compact analytical models.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/7d7e107bcb40ed9596642ff12cc60f33f3eb47e2" target='_blank'>Discovering Interpretable Dynamics by Sparsity Promotion on Energy and the Lagrangian</a></td>
          <td>
            H. Chu, M. Hayashibe
          </td>
          <td>2020-01-31</td>
          <td>IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters</td>
          <td>31</td>
          <td>28</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Discovering nonlinear differential equations from empirical data is a significant challenge, often requiring manual parameter tuning. This paper introduces a machine learning method integrating denoising techniques, sparse regression, and bootstrap confidence intervals, which shows consistent accuracy in identifying 3D dynamical systems with moderate data size and high signal quality. Discovering nonlinear differential equations that describe system dynamics from empirical data is a fundamental challenge in contemporary science. While current methods can identify such equations, they often require extensive manual hyperparameter tuning, limiting their applicability. Here, we propose a methodology to identify dynamical laws by integrating denoising techniques to smooth the signal, sparse regression to identify the relevant parameters, and bootstrap confidence intervals to quantify the uncertainty of the estimates. We evaluate our method on well-known ordinary differential equations with an ensemble of random initial conditions, time series of increasing length, and varying signal-to-noise ratios. Our algorithm consistently identifies three-dimensional systems, given moderately-sized time series and high levels of signal quality relative to background noise. By accurately discovering dynamical systems automatically, our methodology has the potential to impact the understanding of complex systems, especially in fields where data are abundant, but developing mathematical models demands considerable effort.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/1f18c5206491626d36c2271aaf491dbc945f6247" target='_blank'>Automatically discovering ordinary differential equations from data with sparse regression</a></td>
          <td>
            Kevin Egan, Weizhen Li, Rui Carvalho
          </td>
          <td>2024-01-09</td>
          <td>Communications Physics</td>
          <td>32</td>
          <td>3</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The sparse identification of nonlinear dynamics (SINDy) algorithm enables us to discover nonlinear dynamical systems purely from data but is noise-sensitive, especially in low-data scenarios. In this work, we introduce an advanced method that integrates group sparsity thresholds with Earth Mover's distance-based similarity measures in order to enhance the robustness of identifying nonlinear dynamics and the learn functions of dynamical systems governed by parametric ordinary differential equations. This novel approach, which we call group similarity SINDy (GS-SINDy), not only improves interpretability and accuracy in varied parametric settings but also isolates the relevant dynamical features across different datasets, thus bolstering model adaptability and relevance. Applied to several complex systems, including the Lotka-Volterra, Van der Pol, Lorenz, and Brusselator models, GS-SINDy demonstrates consistently enhanced accuracy and reliability, showcasing its effectiveness in diverse applications.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/10a8f9ee6db25ac0405caa853658b8d79def4620" target='_blank'>Enhancing sparse identification of nonlinear dynamics with Earth-Mover distance and group similarity.</a></td>
          <td>
            Donglin Liu, A. Sopasakis
          </td>
          <td>2025-03-01</td>
          <td>Chaos</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>1</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/22dc1c64c6423f738f2c63b7945f7b7f2fbf958d" target='_blank'>Derivative-Based SINDy (DSINDy): Addressing the Challenge of Discovering Governing Equations from Noisy Data</a></td>
          <td>
            J. Wentz, A. Doostan
          </td>
          <td>2022-11-10</td>
          <td>SSRN Electronic Journal</td>
          <td>39</td>
          <td>36</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The discovery of governing equations from data has been an active field of research for decades. One widely used methodology for this purpose is sparse regression for nonlinear dynamics, known as SINDy. Despite several attempts, noisy and scarce data still pose a severe challenge to the success of the SINDy approach. In this work, we discuss a robust method to discover nonlinear governing equations from noisy and scarce data. To do this, we make use of neural networks to learn an implicit representation based on measurement data so that not only it produces the output in the vicinity of the measurements but also the time-evolution of output can be described by a dynamical system. Additionally, we learn such a dynamic system in the spirit of the SINDy framework. Leveraging the implicit representation using neural networks, we obtain the derivative information -- required for SINDy -- using an automatic differentiation tool. To enhance the robustness of our methodology, we further incorporate an integral condition on the output of the implicit networks. Furthermore, we extend our methodology to handle data collected from multiple initial conditions. We demonstrate the efficiency of the proposed methodology to discover governing equations under noisy and scarce data regimes by means of several examples and compare its performance with existing methods.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/7a3166991a8c4161d83c4cdb27033c02f3135cc0" target='_blank'>A Robust SINDy Approach by Combining Neural Networks and an Integral Form</a></td>
          <td>
            Ali Forootani, P. Goyal, P. Benner
          </td>
          <td>2023-09-13</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>9</td>
          <td>17</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Identifying dynamical systems characterized by nonlinear parameters presents significant challenges in deriving mathematical models that enhance understanding of physics. Traditional methods, such as Sparse Identification of Nonlinear Dynamics (SINDy) and symbolic regression, can extract governing equations from observational data; however, they also come with distinct advantages and disadvantages. This paper introduces a novel method within the SINDy framework, termed ADAM-SINDy, which synthesizes the strengths of established approaches by employing the ADAM optimization algorithm. This facilitates the simultaneous optimization of nonlinear parameters and coefficients associated with nonlinear candidate functions, enabling precise parameter estimation without requiring prior knowledge of nonlinear characteristics such as trigonometric frequencies, exponential bandwidths, or polynomial exponents, thereby addressing a key limitation of SINDy. Through an integrated global optimization, ADAM-SINDy dynamically adjusts all unknown variables in response to data, resulting in an adaptive identification procedure that reduces the sensitivity to the library of candidate functions. The performance of the ADAM-SINDy methodology is demonstrated across a spectrum of dynamical systems, including benchmark coupled nonlinear ordinary differential equations such as oscillators, chaotic fluid flows, reaction kinetics, pharmacokinetics, as well as nonlinear partial differential equations (wildfire transport). The results demonstrate significant improvements in identifying parameterized dynamical systems and underscore the importance of concurrently optimizing all parameters, particularly those characterized by nonlinear parameters. These findings highlight the potential of ADAM-SINDy to extend the applicability of the SINDy framework in addressing more complex challenges in dynamical system identification.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/0c327ed253a2c7b658940860bcf0a9e077d634b6" target='_blank'>ADAM-SINDy: An Efficient Optimization Framework for Parameterized Nonlinear Dynamical System Identification</a></td>
          <td>
            Siva Viknesh, Younes Tatari, Amirhossein Arzani
          </td>
          <td>2024-10-21</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>9</td>
          <td>26</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Symbolic Regression (SR) is a widely studied field of research that aims to infer symbolic expressions from data. A popular approach for SR is the Sparse Identification of Nonlinear Dynamical Systems (SINDy) framework, which uses sparse regression to identify governing equations from data. This study introduces an enhanced method, Nested SINDy, that aims to increase the expressivity of the SINDy approach thanks to a nested structure. Indeed, traditional symbolic regression and system identification methods often fail with complex systems that cannot be easily described analytically. Nested SINDy builds on the SINDy framework by introducing additional layers before and after the core SINDy layer. This allows the method to identify symbolic representations for a wider range of systems, including those with compositions and products of functions. We demonstrate the ability of the Nested SINDy approach to accurately find symbolic expressions for simple systems, such as basic trigonometric functions, and sparse (false but accurate) analytical representations for more complex systems. Our results highlight Nested SINDy’s potential as a tool for symbolic regression, surpassing the traditional SINDy approach in terms of expressivity. However, we also note the challenges in the optimization process for Nested SINDy and suggest future research directions, including the designing of a more robust methodology for the optimization process. This study proves that Nested SINDy can effectively discover symbolic representations of dynamical systems from data, offering new opportunities for understanding complex systems through data-driven methods.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/5ef8aa10b07c62bde12d142106068d2ffd9e7414" target='_blank'>Generalizing the SINDy approach with nested neural networks</a></td>
          <td>
            Camilla Fiorini, Cl'ement Flint, Louis Fostier, Emmanuel Franck, Reyhaneh Hashemi, Victor Michel-Dansac, Wassim Tenachi
          </td>
          <td>2024-04-24</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>4</td>
          <td>4</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="In this work we analyze the effectiveness of the Sparse Identification of Nonlinear Dynamics (SINDy) technique on three benchmark datasets for nonlinear identification, to provide a better understanding of its suitability when tackling real dynamical systems. While SINDy can be an appealing strategy for pursuing physics-based learning, our analysis highlights difficulties in dealing with unobserved states and non-smooth dynamics. Due to the ubiquity of these features in real systems in general, and control applications in particular, we complement our analysis with hands-on approaches to tackle these issues in order to exploit SINDy also in these challenging contexts.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/99877062e70fae24c531d58aa880fa443ec10c9b" target='_blank'>SINDy vs Hard Nonlinearities and Hidden Dynamics: a Benchmarking Study</a></td>
          <td>
            Aurelio Raffa Ugolini, Valentina Breschi, Andrea Manzoni, M. Tanelli
          </td>
          <td>2024-03-01</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>7</td>
          <td>4</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>