---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2024-07-15 06:06:14 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Deep learning prediction of patient response time course from early data via neural-pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic modelling</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="Nonlinear mixed effect (NLME) models are the gold standard for the analysis of patient response following drug exposure. However, these types of models are complex and time‐consuming to develop. There is great interest in the adoption of machine‐learning methods, but most implementations cannot be reliably extrapolated to treatment strategies outside of the training data. In order to solve this problem, we propose the deep compartment model (DCM), a combination of neural networks and ordinary differential equations. Using simulated datasets of different sizes, we show that our model remains accurate when training on small data sets. Furthermore, using a real‐world data set of patients with hemophilia A receiving factor VIII concentrate while undergoing surgery, we show that our model more accurately predicts a priori drug concentrations compared to a previous NLME model. In addition, we show that our model correctly describes the changing drug concentration over time. By adopting pharmacokinetic principles, the DCM allows for simulation of different treatment strategies and enables therapeutic drug monitoring.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/9d61f6031526a07caee1c8ff98f7aec3dcc0e8a7" target='_blank'>Deep compartment models: A deep learning approach for the reliable prediction of time‐series data in pharmacokinetic modeling</a></td>
          <td>
            A. Janssen, F. Leebeek, M. Cnossen, R. Mathôt
          </td>
          <td>2022-05-27</td>
          <td>CPT: Pharmacometrics & Systems Pharmacology</td>
          <td>13</td>
          <td>47</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/6b9e53c14cb42fbbf2cf83f8d3216cae3454e22f" target='_blank'>Neural-ODE for pharmacokinetics modeling and its advantage to alternative machine learning models in predicting new dosing regimens</a></td>
          <td>
            James Lu, Kaiwen Deng, Xinyuan Zhang, Gengbo Liu, Y. Guan
          </td>
          <td>2021-06-30</td>
          <td>iScience</td>
          <td>51</td>
          <td>38</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Modeling the time-series of high-dimensional, longitudinal data is important for predicting patient disease progression. However, existing neural network based approaches that learn representations of patient state, while very flexible, are susceptible to overfitting. We propose a deep generative model that makes use of a novel attention-based neural architecture inspired by the physics of how treatments affect disease state. The result is a scalable and accurate model of high-dimensional patient biomarkers as they vary over time. Our proposed model yields significant improvements in generalization and, on real-world clinical data, provides interpretable insights into the dynamics of cancer progression.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/32deb99e701749871af165676d9321642b1bd738" target='_blank'>Neural Pharmacodynamic State Space Modeling</a></td>
          <td>
            Zeshan Hussain, R. G. Krishnan, D. Sontag
          </td>
          <td>2021-02-22</td>
          <td>ArXiv, DBLP</td>
          <td>8</td>
          <td>48</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/41f08a0f0e68812316548323db2b809f94474314" target='_blank'>Machine learning for pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic modeling.</a></td>
          <td>
            Albert Tang
          </td>
          <td>2023-01-01</td>
          <td>Journal of pharmaceutical sciences</td>
          <td>4</td>
          <td>1</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/fb6dc40c018f42d7750cea04fcf109340b5b508a" target='_blank'>Study of drug assimilation in human system using physics informed neural networks</a></td>
          <td>
            Kanupriya Goswami, Arpana Sharma, Madhu Pruthi, Richa Gupta
          </td>
          <td>2021-10-08</td>
          <td>International Journal of Information Technology</td>
          <td>7</td>
          <td>3</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Pharmacometric models are pivotal across drug discovery and development, playing a decisive role in determining the progression of candidate molecules. However, the derivation of mathematical equations governing the system is a labor-intensive trial-and-error process, often constrained by tight timelines. In this study, we introduce PKINNs, a novel purely data-driven pharmacokinetic-informed neural network model. PKINNs efficiently discovers and models intrinsic multi-compartment-based pharmacometric structures, reliably forecasting their derivatives. The resulting models are both interpretable and explainable through Symbolic Regression methods. Our computational framework demonstrates the potential for closed-form model discovery in pharmacometric applications, addressing the labor-intensive nature of traditional model derivation. With the increasing availability of large datasets, this framework holds the potential to significantly enhance model-informed drug discovery.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/1ecec2c77f9d85a4e75c8a8de808c4d916ca0015" target='_blank'>Discovering intrinsic multi-compartment pharmacometric models using Physics Informed Neural Networks</a></td>
          <td>
            I. Nasim, Adam Nasim
          </td>
          <td>2024-04-30</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>3</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c5953e5cee3b374ed2705efca252b1b44e0fe928" target='_blank'>Exploring Transformer Model in Longitudinal Pharmacokinetic/Pharmacodynamic Analyses and Comparing with Alternative Natural Language Processing Models.</a></td>
          <td>
            Yiming Cheng, Hongxiang Hu, Xin Dong, Xiaoran Hao, Yan Li
          </td>
          <td>2024-02-01</td>
          <td>Journal of pharmaceutical sciences</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>4</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/d3bf13f68e8df5be2212e7986959d08cd4995221" target='_blank'>Low-dimensional neural ODEs and their application in pharmacokinetics</a></td>
          <td>
            Dominic Stefan Bräm, U. Nahum, J. Schropp, M. Pfister, Gilbert Koch
          </td>
          <td>2023-10-14</td>
          <td>Journal of Pharmacokinetics and Pharmacodynamics</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>3</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="OBJECTIVE
Recurrent neural network (RNN) has been demonstrated as a powerful tool for analyzing various types of time series data. There is limited knowledge about the application of the RNN model in the area of pharmacokinetic (PK) and pharmacodynamic (PD) analysis. In this paper, a specific variation of RNN, long short-term memory (LSTM) network, is presented to analyze the simulated PK/PD data of a hypothetical drug.


MATERIALS AND METHODS
The plasma concentration and effect level under one dosing regimen were used to train the LSTM model. The developed LSTM model was used to predict the individual PK/PD data under other dosing regimens.


RESULTS
The optimized LSTM model captured temporal dependencies and predicted PD profiles accurately for the simulated indirect PK-PD relationship.


CONCLUSION
The results demonstrated that the generic LSTM model can approximate the complex underlying mechanistic biological processes.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/0958b4b6374156235658f31c6667913e86a26b17" target='_blank'>Long short-term memory recurrent neural network for pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic modeling.</a></td>
          <td>
            Xiangyu Liu, Chao Liu, Ruihao Huang, Hao Zhu, Qi Liu, Sunanda Mitra, Yaning Wang
          </td>
          <td>2020-11-19</td>
          <td>International journal of clinical pharmacology and therapeutics</td>
          <td>23</td>
          <td>31</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>