---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2024-07-15 06:05:38 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Learning 3D Particle-based Simulators from RGB-D Videos</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="From just a glance, humans can make rich predictions about the future state of a wide range of physical systems. On the other hand, modern approaches from engineering, robotics, and graphics are often restricted to narrow domains and require direct measurements of the underlying states. We introduce the Visual Interaction Network, a general-purpose model for learning the dynamics of a physical system from raw visual observations. Our model consists of a perceptual front-end based on convolutional neural networks and a dynamics predictor based on interaction networks. Through joint training, the perceptual front-end learns to parse a dynamic visual scene into a set of factored latent object representations. The dynamics predictor learns to roll these states forward in time by computing their interactions and dynamics, producing a predicted physical trajectory of arbitrary length. We found that from just six input video frames the Visual Interaction Network can generate accurate future trajectories of hundreds of time steps on a wide range of physical systems. Our model can also be applied to scenes with invisible objects, inferring their future states from their effects on the visible objects, and can implicitly infer the unknown mass of objects. Our results demonstrate that the perceptual module and the object-based dynamics predictor module can induce factored latent representations that support accurate dynamical predictions. This work opens new opportunities for model-based decision-making and planning from raw sensory observations in complex physical environments.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/414ab203d8fc3ecfbf40d004960d3a4774830b48" target='_blank'>Visual Interaction Networks: Learning a Physics Simulator from Video</a></td>
          <td>
            Nicholas Watters, Daniel Zoran, T. Weber, P. Battaglia, Razvan Pascanu, A. Tacchetti
          </td>
          <td>2017-06-05</td>
          <td>MAG, ArXiv, DBLP</td>
          <td>254</td>
          <td>67</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Given a visual scene, humans have strong intuitions about how a scene can evolve over time under given actions. The intuition, often termed visual intuitive physics, is a critical ability that allows us to make effective plans to manipulate the scene to achieve desired outcomes without relying on extensive trial and error. In this paper, we present a framework capable of learning 3D-grounded visual intuitive physics models from videos of complex scenes with fluids. Our method is composed of a conditional Neural Radiance Field (NeRF)-style visual frontend and a 3D point-based dynamics prediction backend, using which we can impose strong relational and structural inductive bias to capture the structure of the underlying environment. Unlike existing intuitive point-based dynamics works that rely on the supervision of dense point trajectory from simulators, we relax the requirements and only assume access to multi-view RGB images and (imperfect) instance masks acquired using color prior. This enables the proposed model to handle scenarios where accurate point estimation and tracking are hard or impossible. We generate datasets including three challenging scenarios involving fluid, granular materials, and rigid objects in the simulation. The datasets do not include any dense particle information so most previous 3D-based intuitive physics pipelines can barely deal with that. We show our model can make long-horizon future predictions by learning from raw images and significantly outperforms models that do not employ an explicit 3D representation space. We also show that once trained, our model can achieve strong generalization in complex scenarios under extrapolate settings.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/f3f1592ff282fbf58864c243510eb4a425f3fc70" target='_blank'>3D-IntPhys: Towards More Generalized 3D-grounded Visual Intuitive Physics under Challenging Scenes</a></td>
          <td>
            Haotian Xue, A. Torralba, J. Tenenbaum, Daniel L. K. Yamins, Yunzhu Li, H. Tung
          </td>
          <td>2023-04-22</td>
          <td>2023 IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Workshops (CVPRW)</td>
          <td>5</td>
          <td>127</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="For autonomous skill acquisition, robots have to learn about the physical rules governing the 3D world dynamics from their own past experience to predict and reason about plausible future outcomes. To this end, we propose a transformation-based 3D video prediction (T3VIP) approach that explicitly models the 3D motion by decomposing a scene into its object parts and predicting their corresponding rigid transformations. Our model is fully unsupervised, captures the stochastic nature of the real world, and the observational cues in image and point cloud domains constitute its learning signals. To fully leverage all the 2D and 3D observational signals, we equip our model with automatic hyperparameter optimization (HPO) to interpret the best way of learning from them. To the best of our knowledge, our model is the first generative model that provides an RGB-D video prediction of the future for a static camera. Our extensive evaluation with simulated and real-world datasets demonstrates that our formulation leads to interpretable 3D models that predict future depth videos while achieving on-par performance with 2D models on RGB video prediction. Moreover, we demonstrate that our model outperforms 2D baselines on visuomotor control. Videos, code, dataset, and pre-trained models are available at http://t3vip.cs.uni-freiburg.de.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/18c4b8d0c878e91542c3277201f4eb50fee3a4b3" target='_blank'>T3VIP: Transformation-based $3\mathrm{D}$ Video Prediction</a></td>
          <td>
            Iman Nematollahi, Erick Rosete-Beas, Seyed Mahdi B. Azad, Raghunandan Rajan, F. Hutter, Wolfram Burgard
          </td>
          <td>2022-09-19</td>
          <td>2022 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS)</td>
          <td>2</td>
          <td>121</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="For autonomous skill acquisition, robots have to learn about the physical rules governing the 3D world dynamics from their own past experience to predict and reason about plausible future outcomes. To this end, we propose a transformation-based 3D video prediction (T3VIP) approach that explicitly models the 3D motion by decomposing a scene into its object parts and predicting their corresponding rigid transformations. Our model is fully unsupervised, captures the stochastic nature of the real world, and the observational cues in image and point cloud domains constitute its learning signals. To fully leverage all the 2D and 3D observational signals, we equip our model with automatic hyperparameter optimization (HPO) to interpret the best way of learning from them. To the best of our knowledge, our model is the first generative model that provides an RGB-D video prediction of the future for a static camera. Our extensive evaluation with simulated and real-world datasets demonstrates that our formulation leads to interpretable 3D models that predict future depth videos while achieving on-par performance with 2D models on RGB video prediction. Moreover, we demonstrate that our model outperforms 2D baselines on visuomotor control. Videos, code, dataset, and pre-trained models are available at http://t3vip.cs.uni-freiburg.de.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/18c4b8d0c878e91542c3277201f4eb50fee3a4b3" target='_blank'>T3VIP: Transformation-based $3\mathrm{D}$ Video Prediction</a></td>
          <td>
            Iman Nematollahi, Erick Rosete-Beas, Seyed Mahdi B. Azad, Raghunandan Rajan, F. Hutter, Wolfram Burgard
          </td>
          <td>2022-09-19</td>
          <td>2022 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS)</td>
          <td>2</td>
          <td>121</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="When humans observe a physical system, they can easily locate objects, understand their interactions, and anticipate future behavior, even in settings with complicated and previously unseen interactions. For computers, however, learning such models from videos in an unsupervised fashion is an unsolved research problem. In this paper, we present STOVE, a novel state-space model for videos, which explicitly reasons about objects and their positions, velocities, and interactions. It is constructed by combining an image model and a dynamics model in compositional manner and improves on previous work by reusing the dynamics model for inference, accelerating and regularizing training. STOVE predicts videos with convincing physical behavior over hundreds of timesteps, outperforms previous unsupervised models, and even approaches the performance of supervised baselines. We further demonstrate the strength of our model as a simulator for sample efficient model-based control in a task with heavily interacting objects.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/f87c63cd336f859007a2c07744fb24f8ec466932" target='_blank'>Structured Object-Aware Physics Prediction for Video Modeling and Planning</a></td>
          <td>
            Jannik Kossen, Karl Stelzner, Marcel Hussing, C. Voelcker, K. Kersting
          </td>
          <td>2019-10-06</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>66</td>
          <td>58</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Constructing simulation scenes that are both visually and physically realistic is a problem of practical interest in domains ranging from robotics to computer vision. This problem has become even more relevant as researchers wielding large data-hungry learning methods seek new sources of training data for physical decision-making systems. However, building simulation models is often still done by hand. A graphic designer and a simulation engineer work with predefined assets to construct rich scenes with realistic dynamic and kinematic properties. While this may scale to small numbers of scenes, to achieve the generalization properties that are required for data-driven robotic control, we require a pipeline that is able to synthesize large numbers of realistic scenes, complete with 'natural' kinematic and dynamic structures. To attack this problem, we develop models for inferring structure and generating simulation scenes from natural images, allowing for scalable scene generation from web-scale datasets. To train these image-to-simulation models, we show how controllable text-to-image generative models can be used in generating paired training data that allows for modeling of the inverse problem, mapping from realistic images back to complete scene models. We show how this paradigm allows us to build large datasets of scenes in simulation with semantic and physical realism. We present an integrated end-to-end pipeline that generates simulation scenes complete with articulated kinematic and dynamic structures from real-world images and use these for training robotic control policies. We then robustly deploy in the real world for tasks like articulated object manipulation. In doing so, our work provides both a pipeline for large-scale generation of simulation environments and an integrated system for training robust robotic control policies in the resulting environments.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/a0217c22848ac2effc93dba58e8813faa57a8011" target='_blank'>URDFormer: A Pipeline for Constructing Articulated Simulation Environments from Real-World Images</a></td>
          <td>
            Zoey Chen, Aaron Walsman, Marius Memmel, Kaichun Mo, Alex Fang, Karthikeya Vemuri, Alan Wu, Dieter Fox, Abhishek Gupta
          </td>
          <td>2024-05-19</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>2</td>
          <td>9</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="A key challenge for an agent learning to interact with the world is to reason about physical properties of objects and to foresee their dynamics under the effect of applied forces. In order to scale learning through interaction to many objects and scenes, robots should be able to improve their own performance from real-world experience without requiring human supervision. To this end, we propose a novel approach for modeling the dynamics of a robot’s interactions directly from unlabeled 3D point clouds and images. Unlike previous approaches, our method does not require ground-truth data associations provided by a tracker or any pre-trained perception network. To learn from unlabeled real-world interaction data, we enforce consistency of estimated 3D clouds, actions and 2D images with observed ones. Our joint forward and inverse network learns to segment a scene into salient object parts and predicts their 3D motion under the effect of applied actions. Moreover, our object-centric model outputs action-conditioned 3D scene flow, object masks and 2D optical flow as emergent properties. Our extensive evaluation both in simulation and with real-world data demonstrates that our formulation leads to effective, interpretable models that can be used for visuomotor control and planning. Videos, code and dataset are available at http://hind4sight.cs.uni-freiburg.de">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/f3268665dd71fc2738f8bd86bb95dda36fc47bc9" target='_blank'>Hindsight for Foresight: Unsupervised Structured Dynamics Models from Physical Interaction</a></td>
          <td>
            Iman Nematollahi, Oier Mees, Lukás Hermann, Wolfram Burgard
          </td>
          <td>2020-08-02</td>
          <td>2020 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS)</td>
          <td>14</td>
          <td>121</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="We aim to perform unsupervised discovery of objects and their states such as location and velocity, as well as physical system parameters such as mass and gravity from video -- given only the differential equations governing the scene dynamics. Existing physical scene understanding methods require either object state supervision, or do not integrate with differentiable physics to learn interpretable system parameters and states. We address this problem through a $\textit{physics-as-inverse-graphics}$ approach that brings together vision-as-inverse-graphics and differentiable physics engines. This framework allows us to perform long term extrapolative video prediction, as well as vision-based model-predictive control. Our approach significantly outperforms related unsupervised methods in long-term future frame prediction of systems with interacting objects (such as ball-spring or 3-body gravitational systems). We further show the value of this tight vision-physics integration by demonstrating data-efficient learning of vision-actuated model-based control for a pendulum system. The controller's interpretability also provides unique capabilities in goal-driven control and physical reasoning for zero-data adaptation.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/2ac26ffe14d264fad2cf26632fab86e49a06b03e" target='_blank'>Physics-as-Inverse-Graphics: Joint Unsupervised Learning of Objects and Physics from Video</a></td>
          <td>
            Miguel Jaques, Michael Burke, Timothy M. Hospedales
          </td>
          <td>2019-05-27</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>18</td>
          <td>70</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>