---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2024-07-15 06:05:05 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Discovering governing equations from data by sparse identification of nonlinear dynamical systems</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="Significance Governing equations are essential to the study of physical systems, providing models that can generalize to predict previously unseen behaviors. There are many systems of interest across disciplines where large quantities of data have been collected, but the underlying governing equations remain unknown. This work introduces an approach to discover governing models from data. The proposed method addresses a key limitation of prior approaches by simultaneously discovering coordinates that admit a parsimonious dynamical model. Developing parsimonious and interpretable governing models has the potential to transform our understanding of complex systems, including in neuroscience, biology, and climate science. The discovery of governing equations from scientific data has the potential to transform data-rich fields that lack well-characterized quantitative descriptions. Advances in sparse regression are currently enabling the tractable identification of both the structure and parameters of a nonlinear dynamical system from data. The resulting models have the fewest terms necessary to describe the dynamics, balancing model complexity with descriptive ability, and thus promoting interpretability and generalizability. This provides an algorithmic approach to Occam’s razor for model discovery. However, this approach fundamentally relies on an effective coordinate system in which the dynamics have a simple representation. In this work, we design a custom deep autoencoder network to discover a coordinate transformation into a reduced space where the dynamics may be sparsely represented. Thus, we simultaneously learn the governing equations and the associated coordinate system. We demonstrate this approach on several example high-dimensional systems with low-dimensional behavior. The resulting modeling framework combines the strengths of deep neural networks for flexible representation and sparse identification of nonlinear dynamics (SINDy) for parsimonious models. This method places the discovery of coordinates and models on an equal footing.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/3c9961153493370500020c81527b3548c96f81e0" target='_blank'>Data-driven discovery of coordinates and governing equations</a></td>
          <td>
            Kathleen P. Champion, Bethany Lusch, J. Kutz, S. Brunton
          </td>
          <td>2019-03-29</td>
          <td>Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America</td>
          <td>588</td>
          <td>63</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/1f18c5206491626d36c2271aaf491dbc945f6247" target='_blank'>Automatically discovering ordinary differential equations from data with sparse regression</a></td>
          <td>
            Kevin Egan, Weizhen Li, Rui Carvalho
          </td>
          <td>2024-01-09</td>
          <td>Communications Physics</td>
          <td>7</td>
          <td>1</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Estimating governing equations from observed time-series data is crucial for understanding dynamical systems. From the perspective of system comprehension, the demand for accurate estimation and interpretable results has been particularly emphasized. Herein, we propose a novel data-driven method for estimating the governing equations of dynamical systems based on machine learning with high accuracy and interpretability. The proposed method enhances the estimation accuracy for dynamical systems using sparse modeling by incorporating physical constraints derived from Hamiltonian mechanics. Unlike conventional approaches used for estimating governing equations for dynamical systems, we employ a sparse representation of Hamiltonian, allowing for the estimation. Using noisy observational data, the proposed method demonstrates a capability to achieve accurate parameter estimation and extraction of essential nonlinear terms. In addition, it is shown that estimations based on energy conservation principles exhibit superior accuracy in long-term predictions. These results collectively indicate that the proposed method accurately estimates dynamical systems while maintaining interpretability.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/18c6dbc4e20d80b81497e8c444e6f9a9ee1acf36" target='_blank'>Sparse Estimation for Hamiltonian Mechanics</a></td>
          <td>
            Yuya Note, Masahito Watanabe, Hiroaki Yoshimura, Takaharu Yaguchi, Toshiaki Omori
          </td>
          <td>2024-03-25</td>
          <td>Mathematics</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>11</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e596988b1df3a0bc78bf72c0bfdb21c85eaab6c9" target='_blank'>Physics-informed learning of governing equations from scarce data</a></td>
          <td>
            Zhao Chen, Yang Liu, Hao Sun
          </td>
          <td>2020-05-05</td>
          <td>Nature Communications</td>
          <td>229</td>
          <td>12</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Discovering the partial differential equations underlying spatio-temporal datasets from very limited and highly noisy observations is of paramount interest in many scientific fields. However, it remains an open question to know when model discovery algorithms based on sparse regression can actually recover the underlying physical processes. In this work, we show the design matrices used to infer the equations by sparse regression can violate the irrepresentability condition (IRC) of the Lasso, even when derived from analytical PDE solutions (i.e. without additional noise). Sparse regression techniques which can recover the true underlying model under violated IRC conditions are therefore required, leading to the introduction of the randomised adaptive Lasso. We show once the latter is integrated within the deep learning model discovery framework DeepMod, a wide variety of nonlinear and chaotic canonical PDEs can be recovered: (1) up to $\mathcal{O}(2)$ higher noise-to-sample ratios than state-of-the-art algorithms, (2) with a single set of hyperparameters, which paves the road towards truly automated model discovery.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/45633bde87d3fecdb0ef577036f2465e70c51f24" target='_blank'>Sparsistent Model Discovery</a></td>
          <td>
            Georges Tod, G. Both, R. Kusters
          </td>
          <td>2021-06-22</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>12</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Harnessing data to discover the underlying governing laws or equations that describe the behavior of complex physical systems can significantly advance our modeling, simulation and understanding of such systems in various science and engineering disciplines. Recent advances in sparse identification show encouraging success in distilling closed-form governing equations from data for a wide range of nonlinear dynamical systems. However, the fundamental bottleneck of this approach lies in the robustness and scalability with respect to data scarcity and noise. This work introduces a novel physics-informed deep learning framework to discover governing partial differential equations (PDEs) from scarce and noisy data for nonlinear spatiotemporal systems. In particular, this approach seamlessly integrates the strengths of deep neural networks for rich representation learning, automatic differentiation and sparse regression to approximate the solution of system variables, compute essential derivatives, as well as identify the key derivative terms and parameters that form the structure and explicit expression of the PDEs. The efficacy and robustness of this method are demonstrated on discovering a variety of PDE systems with different levels of data scarcity and noise. The resulting computational framework shows the potential for closed-form model discovery in practical applications where large and accurate datasets are intractable to capture.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e2acd4a2bc6af5deb02f542846766868e3f1b180" target='_blank'>Deep learning of physical laws from scarce data</a></td>
          <td>
            Zhao Chen, Yang Liu, Hao Sun
          </td>
          <td>2020-05-05</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>19</td>
          <td>12</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="In this work, we blend machine learning and dictionary-based learning with numerical analysis tools to discover differential equations from noisy and sparsely sampled measurement data of time-dependent processes. We use the fact that given a dictionary containing large candidate nonlinear functions, dynamical models can often be described by a few appropriately chosen basis functions. As a result, we obtain parsimonious models that can be better interpreted by practitioners, and potentially generalize better beyond the sampling regime than black-box modelling. In this work, we integrate a numerical integration framework with dictionary learning that yields differential equations without requiring or approximating derivative information at any stage. Hence, it is utterly effective for corrupted and sparsely sampled data. We discuss its extension to governing equations, containing rational nonlinearities that typically appear in biological networks. Moreover, we generalized the method to governing equations subject to parameter variations and externally controlled inputs. We demonstrate the efficiency of the method to discover a number of diverse differential equations using noisy measurements, including a model describing neural dynamics, chaotic Lorenz model, Michaelis–Menten kinetics and a parameterized Hopf normal form.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/5430c642bf5e56ce52dbfa94a9b3f4035b3222d1" target='_blank'>Discovery of nonlinear dynamical systems using a Runge–Kutta inspired dictionary-based sparse regression approach</a></td>
          <td>
            P. Goyal, P. Benner
          </td>
          <td>2021-05-11</td>
          <td>Proceedings. Mathematical, Physical, and Engineering Sciences</td>
          <td>37</td>
          <td>53</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/01dc5b357be8d15e52cfad61a421b2b27a6e73d4" target='_blank'>Exploiting sparsity and equation-free architectures in complex systems</a></td>
          <td>
            J. Proctor, S. Brunton, Bingni W. Brunton, J. Kutz
          </td>
          <td>2014-12-10</td>
          <td>The European Physical Journal Special Topics</td>
          <td>64</td>
          <td>63</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/f066f56b839bc2b5bf188c44767582440c6ea850" target='_blank'>Exploiting sparsity and equation-free architectures in complex systems</a></td>
          <td>
            J. Proctor, S. Brunton, Bingni W. Brunton, J. Kutz
          </td>
          <td>2014-12-01</td>
          <td>The European Physical Journal Special Topics</td>
          <td>7</td>
          <td>63</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>