---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2024-07-15 06:06:46 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Modern Koopman Theory for Dynamical Systems</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/75407116e515533f3cb11b6de14449f2933638ed" target='_blank'>Estimating Koopman operators for nonlinear dynamical systems: a nonparametric approach</a></td>
          <td>
            Francesco Zanini, A. Chiuso
          </td>
          <td>2021-03-25</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>4</td>
          <td>37</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/0f4b3d72f08bfadc076617850cc8a5e9395738d6" target='_blank'>Koopman Operator Dynamical Models: Learning, Analysis and Control</a></td>
          <td>
            Petar Bevanda, Stefan Sosnowski, S. Hirche
          </td>
          <td>2021-02-04</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>87</td>
          <td>47</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/3ea99ee3b9d78f3a81076b19637bae9a53236cb0" target='_blank'>Data-Driven Approximations of Dynamical Systems Operators for Control</a></td>
          <td>
            E. Kaiser, J. Kutz, S. Brunton
          </td>
          <td>2019-02-26</td>
          <td>Lecture Notes in Control and Information Sciences</td>
          <td>36</td>
          <td>63</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Spectral decomposition of the Koopman operator is attracting attention as a tool for the analysis of nonlinear dynamical systems. Dynamic mode decomposition is a popular numerical algorithm for Koopman spectral analysis; however, we often need to prepare nonlinear observables manually according to the underlying dynamics, which is not always possible since we may not have any a priori knowledge about them. In this paper, we propose a fully data-driven method for Koopman spectral analysis based on the principle of learning Koopman invariant subspaces from observed data. To this end, we propose minimization of the residual sum of squares of linear least-squares regression to estimate a set of functions that transforms data into a form in which the linear regression fits well. We introduce an implementation with neural networks and evaluate performance empirically using nonlinear dynamical systems and applications.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/49ee811e5c7af5980d3dfe791f6b18e0080ad566" target='_blank'>Learning Koopman Invariant Subspaces for Dynamic Mode Decomposition</a></td>
          <td>
            Naoya Takeishi, Y. Kawahara, T. Yairi
          </td>
          <td>2017-10-12</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>324</td>
          <td>24</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Koopman analysis provides a general framework from which to analyze a nonlinear dynamical system in terms of a linear operator acting on an inﬁnite-dimensional observable space. This theoretical framework provides a rigorous underpinning for widely used dynamic mode decomposition algorithms. While such methods have proven to be remarkably useful in the analysis of time-series data, the resulting linear models must generally be of high order to accurately approximate fundamentally nonlinear behaviors. This issue poses an inherent risk of overﬁtting to training data thereby limiting predictive capabilities. By contrast, this work explores strategies for nonlinear data-driven estimation of the action of the Koopman operator. General strategies that yield nonlinear models are presented for systems both with and without control. Subsequent projection of the resulting nonlinear equations onto a low-rank basis yields a low order representation for the underlying dynamical system. In both computational and experimental examples considered in this work, linear estimators of the Koopman operator are generally only able to provide short-term predictions for the observable dynamics while comparable nonlinear estimators provide accurate predictions on substantially longer timescales and replicate inﬁnite-time behaviors that linear predictors cannot.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/1cda473dadc56234490012ec6c5679625cdfe565" target='_blank'>Nonlinear Data-Driven Approximation of the Koopman Operator</a></td>
          <td>
            Dan Wilson
          </td>
          <td>2022-10-10</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>19</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Koopman operators are infinite‐dimensional operators that globally linearize nonlinear dynamical systems, making their spectral information valuable for understanding dynamics. However, Koopman operators can have continuous spectra and infinite‐dimensional invariant subspaces, making computing their spectral information a considerable challenge. This paper describes data‐driven algorithms with rigorous convergence guarantees for computing spectral information of Koopman operators from trajectory data. We introduce residual dynamic mode decomposition (ResDMD), which provides the first scheme for computing the spectra and pseudospectra of general Koopman operators from snapshot data without spectral pollution. Using the resolvent operator and ResDMD, we compute smoothed approximations of spectral measures associated with general measure‐preserving dynamical systems. We prove explicit convergence theorems for our algorithms (including for general systems that are not measure‐preserving), which can achieve high‐order convergence even for chaotic systems when computing the density of the continuous spectrum and the discrete spectrum. Since our algorithms have error control, ResDMD allows aposteri verification of spectral quantities, Koopman mode decompositions, and learned dictionaries. We demonstrate our algorithms on the tent map, circle rotations, Gauss iterated map, nonlinear pendulum, double pendulum, and Lorenz system. Finally, we provide kernelized variants of our algorithms for dynamical systems with a high‐dimensional state space. This allows us to compute the spectral measure associated with the dynamics of a protein molecule with a 20,046‐dimensional state space and compute nonlinear Koopman modes with error bounds for turbulent flow past aerofoils with Reynolds number >105 that has a 295,122‐dimensional state space.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/1aede45bbc0a7936bcd91fd55a33ddecb2b400a6" target='_blank'>Rigorous data‐driven computation of spectral properties of Koopman operators for dynamical systems</a></td>
          <td>
            Matthew J. Colbrook, Alex Townsend
          </td>
          <td>2021-11-29</td>
          <td>Communications on Pure and Applied Mathematics</td>
          <td>42</td>
          <td>28</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Introduction The end of the 20th century and the beginning of the 21st century has seen a revolutionary increase in the availability of data. Indeed, we are in the middle of the sensing revolution, where sensing is used in the broadest meaning of data acquisition. Most of this data goes unprocessed, unanalyzed, and, consequently, unused. This causes missed opportunities, in domains of vast societal importance—">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/90edc9f58779b5a32848edd2f5a8175642351b48" target='_blank'>Koopman Operator, Geometry, and Learning of Dynamical Systems</a></td>
          <td>
            I. Mezić
          </td>
          <td>2021-08-01</td>
          <td>Notices of the American Mathematical Society</td>
          <td>31</td>
          <td>49</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Koopman operators are infinite-dimensional operators that linearize nonlinear dynamical systems, facilitating the study of their spectral properties and enabling the prediction of the time evolution of observable quantities. Recent methods have aimed to approximate Koopman operators while preserving key structures. However, approximating Koopman operators typically requires a dictionary of observables to capture the system's behavior in a finite-dimensional subspace. The selection of these functions is often heuristic, may result in the loss of spectral information, and can severely complicate structure preservation. This paper introduces Multiplicative Dynamic Mode Decomposition (MultDMD), which enforces the multiplicative structure inherent in the Koopman operator within its finite-dimensional approximation. Leveraging this multiplicative property, we guide the selection of observables and define a constrained optimization problem for the matrix approximation, which can be efficiently solved. MultDMD presents a structured approach to finite-dimensional approximations and can more accurately reflect the spectral properties of the Koopman operator. We elaborate on the theoretical framework of MultDMD, detailing its formulation, optimization strategy, and convergence properties. The efficacy of MultDMD is demonstrated through several examples, including the nonlinear pendulum, the Lorenz system, and fluid dynamics data, where we demonstrate its remarkable robustness to noise.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/0cc59f7258cc0c3e219e7edb0f6cbaf13b67c680" target='_blank'>Multiplicative Dynamic Mode Decomposition</a></td>
          <td>
            Nicolas Boull'e, Matthew J. Colbrook
          </td>
          <td>2024-05-08</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>16</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="We consider the application of Koopman theory to nonlinear partial differential equations and data-driven spatio-temporal systems. We demonstrate that the observables chosen for constructing the Koopman operator are critical for enabling an accurate approximation to the nonlinear dynamics. If such observables can be found, then the dynamic mode decomposition (DMD) algorithm can be enacted to compute a finite-dimensional approximation of the Koopman operator, including its eigenfunctions, eigenvalues, and Koopman modes. We demonstrate simple rules of thumb for selecting a parsimonious set of observables that can greatly improve the approximation of the Koopman operator. Further, we show that the clear goal in selecting observables is to place the DMD eigenvalues on the imaginary axis, thus giving an objective function for observable selection. Judiciously chosen observables lead to physically interpretable spatio-temporal features of the complex system under consideration and provide a connection to manifold learning methods. Our method provides a valuable intermediate, yet interpretable, approximation to the Koopman operator that lies between the DMD method and the computationally intensive extended DMD (EDMD). We demonstrate the impact of observable selection, including kernel methods, and construction of the Koopman operator on several canonical nonlinear PDEs: Burgers’ equation, the nonlinear Schrödinger equation, the cubic-quintic Ginzburg-Landau equation, and a reaction-diffusion system. These examples serve to highlight the most pressing and critical challenge of Koopman theory: a principled way to select appropriate observables.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/1ce0ee1c0205e37c20daf33a5ad6eed187107614" target='_blank'>Applied Koopman Theory for Partial Differential Equations and Data-Driven Modeling of Spatio-Temporal Systems</a></td>
          <td>
            J. Kutz, J. Proctor, S. Brunton
          </td>
          <td>2018-12-02</td>
          <td>Complex.</td>
          <td>63</td>
          <td>63</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>