---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2024-07-15 06:06:17 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>CellBox: Interpretable Machine Learning for Perturbation Biology with Application to the Design of Cancer Combination Therapy.</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="Systematic perturbation of cells followed by comprehensive measurements of molecular and phenotypic responses provides an informative data resource for constructing computational models of cell biology. Models that generalize well beyond training data can be used to identify combinatorial perturbations of potential therapeutic interest. Major challenges for machine learning on large biological datasets are to find global optima in an enormously complex multi-dimensional solution space and to mechanistically interpret the solutions. To address these challenges, we introduce a hybrid approach that combines explicit mathematical models of dynamic cell biological processes with a machine learning framework, implemented in Tensorflow. We tested the modelling framework on a perturbation-response dataset for a melanoma cell line after drug treatments. The models can be efficiently trained to accurately describe cellular behavior, as tested by cross-validation. Even though completely data-driven and independent of prior knowledge, the resulting de novo network models recapitulate known interactions. The main predictive application is the identification of combinatorial candidates for cancer therapy. The approach is readily applicable to a wide range of kinetic models of cell biology.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/250017f99bdff84eb0a2ac65698224b4abe7c8a4" target='_blank'>Interpretable Machine Learning for Perturbation Biology</a></td>
          <td>
            Bo Yuan, Ciyue Shen, Augustin Luna, Anil Korkut, D. Marks, John Ingraham, C. Sander
          </td>
          <td>2019-08-28</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>6</td>
          <td>153</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Systematic perturbation of cells followed by comprehensive measurements of molecular and phenotypic responses provides an informative data resource for constructing computational models of cell biology. Models that generalize well beyond training data can be used to identify combinatorial perturbations of potential therapeutic interest. Major challenges for machine learning on large biological datasets are to find global optima in an enormously complex multi-dimensional solution space and to mechanistically interpret the solutions. To address these challenges, we introduce a hybrid approach that combines explicit mathematical models of dynamic cell biological processes with a machine learning framework, implemented in Tensorflow. We tested the modeling framework on a perturbation-response dataset for a melanoma cell line after drug treatments. The models can be efficiently trained to accurately describe cellular behavior, as tested by cross-validation. Even though completely data-driven and independent of prior knowledge, the resulting de novo network models recapitulate known interactions. The main predictive application of our work is the identification of combinatorial candidates for cancer therapy. This approach is readily applicable to a wide range of kinetic models of cell biology. Citation Format: Judy Shen, Bo Yuan, Augustin Luna, Anil Korkut, Debora Marks, John Ingraham, Chris Sander. Interpretable machine learning for perturbation biology [abstract]. In: Proceedings of the Annual Meeting of the American Association for Cancer Research 2020; 2020 Apr 27-28 and Jun 22-24. Philadelphia (PA): AACR; Cancer Res 2020;80(16 Suppl):Abstract nr 2102.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e6f21c31f5c969c279bb555f1dff954d04e64763" target='_blank'>Abstract 2102: Interpretable machine learning for perturbation biology</a></td>
          <td>
            Judy Shen, Bo Yuan, Augustin Luna, Anil Korkut, D. Marks, John Ingraham, C. Sander
          </td>
          <td>2020-08-13</td>
          <td>Clinical Research (Excluding Clinical Trials)</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>153</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/44c74be92bfee5ad8a4f41543b36dd3d2c83e2bf" target='_blank'>Interpretable predictions of cellular behavior</a></td>
          <td>
            Ananya Rastogi
          </td>
          <td>2021-03-01</td>
          <td>Nature Computational Science</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>3</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="We present a powerful experimental-computational technology for inferring network models that predict the response of cells to perturbations, and that may be useful in the design of combinatorial therapy against cancer. The experiments are systematic series of perturbations of cancer cell lines by targeted drugs, singly or in combination. The response to perturbation is quantified in terms of relative changes in the measured levels of proteins, phospho-proteins and cellular phenotypes such as viability. Computational network models are derived de novo, i.e., without prior knowledge of signaling pathways, and are based on simple non-linear differential equations. The prohibitively large solution space of all possible network models is explored efficiently using a probabilistic algorithm, Belief Propagation (BP), which is three orders of magnitude faster than standard Monte Carlo methods. Explicit executable models are derived for a set of perturbation experiments in SKMEL-133 melanoma cell lines, which are resistant to the therapeutically important inhibitor of RAF kinase. The resulting network models reproduce and extend known pathway biology. They empower potential discoveries of new molecular interactions and predict efficacious novel drug perturbations, such as the inhibition of PLK1, which is verified experimentally. This technology is suitable for application to larger systems in diverse areas of molecular biology.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/1e881a1d1a8c8f35ba366d63693c2ac0094344e4" target='_blank'>Perturbation Biology: Inferring Signaling Networks in Cellular Systems</a></td>
          <td>
            Evan J. Molinelli, Anil Korkut, Weiqing Wang, Martin L. Miller, N. Gauthier, Xiaohong Jing, Poorvi Kaushik, Qin He, Gordon Mills, D. Solit, C. Pratilas, M. Weigt, A. Braunstein, A. Pagnani, R. Zecchina, C. Sander
          </td>
          <td>2013-08-23</td>
          <td>PLoS Computational Biology</td>
          <td>129</td>
          <td>153</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/489d291fe97c3be2453f795365b1fe447d6e0896" target='_blank'>A gray box framework that optimizes a white box logical model using a black box optimizer for simulating cellular responses to perturbations</a></td>
          <td>
            Yunseong Kim, Y. Han, Corbin Hopper, Jonghoon Lee, J. Joo, Jeong-Ryeol Gong, Chun-Kyung Lee, Seong-Hoon Jang, Junsoo Kang, Taeyoung Kim, Kwang-Hyun Cho
          </td>
          <td>2024-05-01</td>
          <td>Cell Reports Methods</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>6</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Data-driven mathematical modeling of biological systems has enormous potential to understand and predict the interplay between molecular and phenotypic response to perturbation, and provides a rational approach to the nomination of therapies in complex diseases such as cancer. Melanoma is a particularly debilitating disease for which most therapies eventually fail as resistance to chemotherapy and targeted drugs develop. We have previously applied an iterative experimental-computational modeling approach, termed perturbation biology, to predict and test effective drug combinations in melanoma cell lines [1]. In this work, we extend our analysis framework to derive models of temporally-acquired perturbation data that do not require prior knowledge and explicit specification of the targets of individual drugs. Specifically, we characterize the response of the melanoma cell line A2058 to 54 cancer drug combinations at 8 logarithmically spaced time points from 10 minutes to 67 hours. At each time point, 124 antibodies of proteins and phospho-proteins with broad coverage of cancer-related pathways and two phenotypes (cell number and apoptosis) were measured. These data are used to infer interactions in ordinary differential equation-based models that capture temporal aspects of the drug perturbation data. This network representation of drug–protein, protein–protein, and protein–phenotype interactions can be used to identify new logical (not necessarily direct biochemical) interactions. The agreement between the predicted phenotypic response and corresponding data for unseen drug perturbations has a Pearson’s correlation coefficient of 0.79. We further use model predictions to nominate effective combination therapies and perform experimental validation of the highest ranked combinations. This new data-driven modeling framework is a step forward in perturbation biology as it incorporates the temporal aspect of data. This work therefore opens the door to a new understanding of dynamic drug responses at a molecular level.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/14c762a67f5a9622f2d23ad99cb08992af10b2d5" target='_blank'>Perturbation biology links temporal protein changes to drug responses in a melanoma cell line</a></td>
          <td>
            Elin Nyman, R. Stein, Xiaohong Jing, Weiqing Wang, Benjamin Marks, I. Zervantonakis, Anil Korkut, N. Gauthier, C. Sander
          </td>
          <td>2019-03-06</td>
          <td>PLoS Computational Biology</td>
          <td>12</td>
          <td>153</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="In cell line perturbation experiments, a collection of cells is perturbed with external agents (e.g. drugs) and responses such as protein expression measured. Due to cost constraints, only a small fraction of all possible perturbations can be tested in vitro. This has led to the development of computational (in silico) models which can predict cellular responses to perturbations. Perturbations with clinically interesting predicted responses can be prioritized for in vitro testing. In this work, we compare causal and non-causal regression models for perturbation response prediction in a Melanoma cancer cell line. The current best performing method on this data set is Cellbox which models how proteins causally effect each other using a system of ordinary differential equations (ODEs). We derive a closed form solution to the Cellbox system of ODEs in the linear case. These analytic results facilitate comparison of Cellbox to regression approaches. We show that causal models such as Cellbox, while requiring more assumptions, enable extrapolation in ways that non-causal regression models cannot. For example, causal models can predict responses for never before tested drugs. We illustrate these strengths and weaknesses in simulations. In an application to the Melanoma cell line data, we find that regression models outperform the Cellbox causal model.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/fbff9ee6f0bdabf0ef4cd37032398f2655399604" target='_blank'>Causal Models, Prediction, and Extrapolation in Cell Line Perturbation Experiments</a></td>
          <td>
            J. Long, Yumeng Yang, K. Do
          </td>
          <td>2022-07-20</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>63</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Phenotype-based screening has attracted much attention for identifying cell-active compounds. Transcriptional and proteomic profiles of cell population or single cells are informative phenotypic measures of cellular responses to perturbations. In this paper, we proposed a deep learning framework based on encoder-decoder architecture that maps the initial cellular states to a latent space, in which we assume the effects of drug perturbation on cellular states follow linear additivity. Next, we introduced the cycle consistency constraints to enforce that initial cellular state subjected to drug perturbations would produce the perturbed cellular responses, and, conversely, removal of drug perturbation from the perturbed cellular states would restore the initial cellular states. The cycle consistency constraints and linear modeling in latent space enable to learn interpretable and transferable drug perturbation representations, so that our model can predict cellular response to unseen drugs. We validated our model on three different types of datasets, including bulk transcriptional responses, bulk proteomic responses, and single-cell transcriptional responses to drug perturbations. The experimental results show that our model achieves better performance than existing state-of-the-art methods.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/219ca99cb481dd119358086b5ced78904cf72071" target='_blank'>Interpretable Modeling of Single-cell perturbation Responses to Novel Drugs Using Cycle Consistence Learning</a></td>
          <td>
            Wei Huang, Aichun Zhu, Hui Liu
          </td>
          <td>2023-11-17</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>0</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="SUMMARY
Phenotype-based drug screening emerges as a powerful approach for identifying compounds that actively interact with cells. Transcriptional and proteomic profiling of cell lines and individual cells provide insights into the cellular state alterations that occur at the molecular level in response to external perturbations, such as drugs or genetic manipulations. In this paper, we propose cycleCDR, a novel deep learning framework to predict cellular response to external perturbations. We leverage the autoencoder to map the unperturbed cellular states to a latent space, in which we postulate the effects of drug perturbations on cellular states follow a linear additive model. Next, we introduce the cycle consistency constraints to ensure that unperturbed cellular state subjected to drug perturbation in the latent space would produces the perturbed cellular state through the decoder. Conversely, removal of perturbations from the perturbed cellular states can restore the unperturbed cellular state. The cycle consistency constraints and linear modeling in the latent space enable to learn transferable representations of external perturbations, so that our model can generalize well to unseen drugs during training stage. We validate our model on four different types of datasets, including bulk transcriptional responses, bulk proteomic responses, and single-cell transcriptional responses to drug/gene perturbations. The experimental results demonstrate that our model consistently outperforms existing state-of-the-art methods, indicating our method is highly versatile and applicable to a wide range of scenarios.


AVAILABILITY AND IMPLEMENTATION
The source code is available at: https://github.com/hliulab/cycleCDR.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/f1c2b23f3deb29435692d8627c8b4e0b406ec968" target='_blank'>Predicting single-cell cellular responses to perturbations using cycle consistency learning.</a></td>
          <td>
            Wei Huang, Hui Liu
          </td>
          <td>2024-06-28</td>
          <td>Bioinformatics</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>0</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="MOTIVATION
Predicting trajectories of signaling networks under complex perturbations is one of the most valuable, but challenging, tasks in systems biology. Signaling networks are involved in most of the biological pathways, and modeling their dynamics has wide applications including drug design and treatment outcome prediction.


RESULTS
In this paper, we report a novel model for predicting the cell type-specific time course response of signaling proteins under unseen perturbations. This algorithm achieved the top performance in the 2013 8th Dialogue for Reverse Engineering Assessments and Methods (DREAM 8) subchallenge: time course prediction in breast cancer cell lines. We formulate the trajectory prediction problem into a standard regularization problem; the solution becomes solving this discrete ill-posed problem. This algorithm includes three steps: denoising, estimating regression coefficients and modeling trajectories under unseen perturbations. We further validated the accuracy of this method against simulation and experimental data. Furthermore, this method reduces computational time by magnitudes compared to state-of-the-art methods, allowing genome-wide modeling of signaling pathways and time course trajectories to be carried out in a practical time.


AVAILABILITY AND IMPLEMENTATION
Source code is available at http://guanlab.ccmb.med.umich.edu/DREAM/code.html and as supplementary file online.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/39f3131ed92cb56b1c5af701ea805e6fd9bbe339" target='_blank'>Predicting dynamic signaling network response under unseen perturbations</a></td>
          <td>
            Fan Zhu, Y. Guan
          </td>
          <td>2014-10-01</td>
          <td>Bioinformatics</td>
          <td>15</td>
          <td>38</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>