---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2025-10-27 06:13:58 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Learning Discrepancy Models From Experimental Data</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="The autonomous distillation of physical laws only from data is of great interest in many scientific fields. Data-driven modeling frameworks that adopt sparse regression techniques, such as sparse identification of nonlinear dynamics (SINDy) and its modifications, are developed to resolve difficulties in extracting underlying dynamics from experimental data. However, SINDy faces certain difficulties when the dynamics contain rational functions. The Lagrangian is substantially more concise than the actual equations of motion, especially for complex systems, and it does not usually contain rational functions for mechanical systems. Few proposed methods proposed to date, such as Lagrangian-SINDy we have proposed recently, can extract the true form of the Lagrangian of dynamical systems from data; however, these methods are easily affected by noise as a fact. In this study, we developed an extended version of Lagrangian-SINDy (xL-SINDy) to obtain the Lagrangian of dynamical systems from noisy measurement data. We incorporated the concept of SINDy and used the proximal gradient method to obtain sparse Lagrangian expressions. Further, we demonstrated the effectiveness of xL-SINDy against different noise levels using four mechanical systems. In addition, we compared its performance with SINDy-PI (parallel, implicit) which is a latest robust variant of SINDy that can handle implicit dynamics and rational nonlinearities. The experimental results reveal that xL-SINDy is much more robust than the existing methods for extracting the governing equations of nonlinear mechanical systems from data with noise. We believe this contribution is significant toward noise-tolerant computational method for explicit dynamics law extraction from data.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/4cb7ffb5dfa4330c7fcc70afce6f8129c1699c42" target='_blank'>Sparse identification of Lagrangian for nonlinear dynamical systems via proximal gradient method</a></td>
          <td>
            Adam Purnomo, M. Hayashibe
          </td>
          <td>2022-09-04</td>
          <td>Scientific Reports</td>
          <td>10</td>
          <td>26</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Data-driven modeling frameworks that adopt sparse regression techniques, such as sparse identification of nonlinear dynamics (SINDy) and its modifications, are developed to resolve difficulties in extracting underlying dynamics from experimental data. In contrast to neural-network-based methods, these methods are designed to obtain white-box analytical models. In this work, we incorporate the concept of SINDy and knowledge in the field of classical mechanics to identify interpretable and sparse expressions of total energy and the Lagrangian that shelters the hidden dynamics. Moreover, our method (hereafter referred as Lagrangian-SINDy) is developed to use knowledge of simple systems that form the system being analyzed to ensure the likelihood of correct results and to improve the learning pace. Lagrangian-SINDy is highly accurate in discovering interpretable dynamics via energy-related physical quantities. Its performance is validated with three popular multi-DOF nonlinear dynamical systems, namely the spherical pendulum, double pendulum and cart-pendulum system. Comparisons with other SINDy-based methods are made and Lagrangian-SINDy is found to provide the most compact analytical models.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/7d7e107bcb40ed9596642ff12cc60f33f3eb47e2" target='_blank'>Discovering Interpretable Dynamics by Sparsity Promotion on Energy and the Lagrangian</a></td>
          <td>
            H. Chu, M. Hayashibe
          </td>
          <td>2020-01-31</td>
          <td>IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters</td>
          <td>28</td>
          <td>26</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="In this work we analyze the effectiveness of the Sparse Identification of Nonlinear Dynamics (SINDy) technique on three benchmark datasets for nonlinear identification, to provide a better understanding of its suitability when tackling real dynamical systems. While SINDy can be an appealing strategy for pursuing physics-based learning, our analysis highlights difficulties in dealing with unobserved states and non-smooth dynamics. Due to the ubiquity of these features in real systems in general, and control applications in particular, we complement our analysis with hands-on approaches to tackle these issues in order to exploit SINDy also in these challenging contexts.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/99877062e70fae24c531d58aa880fa443ec10c9b" target='_blank'>SINDy vs Hard Nonlinearities and Hidden Dynamics: a Benchmarking Study</a></td>
          <td>
            Aurelio Raffa Ugolini, Valentina Breschi, Andrea Manzoni, M. Tanelli
          </td>
          <td>2024-03-01</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>4</td>
          <td>3</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="In this thesis, we draw inspiration from both classical system identification and modern machine learning in order to solve estimation problems for real-world, physical systems. The main approach to estimation and learning adopted is optimization based. Concepts such as regularization will be utilized for encoding of prior knowledge and basis-function expansions will be used to add nonlinear modeling power while keeping data requirements practical. The thesis covers a wide range of applications, many inspired by applications within robotics, but also extending outside this already wide field. Usage of the proposed methods and algorithms are in many cases illustrated in the real-world applications that motivated the research. Topics covered include dynamics modeling and estimation, model-based reinforcement learning, spectral estimation, friction modeling and state estimation and calibration in robotic machining. In the work on modeling and identification of dynamics, we develop regularization strategies that allow us to incorporate prior domain knowledge into flexible, overparameterized models. We make use of classical control theory to gain insight into training and regularization while using flexible tools from modern deep learning. A particular focus of the work is to allow use of modern methods in scenarios where gathering data is associated with a high cost. In the robotics-inspired parts of the thesis, we develop methods that are practically motivated and ensure that they are implementable also outside the research setting. We demonstrate this by performing experiments in realistic settings and providing open-source implementations of all proposed methods and algorithms.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/8eeb63862b519544040b709740df7d93773a7d84" target='_blank'>Machine Learning and System Identification for Estimation in Physical Systems</a></td>
          <td>
            Fredrik Bagge Carlson
          </td>
          <td>2018-12-20</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>5</td>
          <td>8</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Machine learning is rapidly advancing nearly every field of science and engineering, and control theory is no exception. In particular, it has shown incredible promise for handling several of the main challenges facing modern dynamics and control, including complexity, unmodeled dynamics, strong nonlinearity, and hidden variables. However, machine learning models are often expensive to train and deploy, fail to generalize beyond the training data, and suffer from a lack of explainability, interpretability, and guarantees, all of which limit their use in real-world and safety-critical control applications. Sparse nonlinear modeling and control techniques are a powerful class of machine learning that promote parsimony through sparse optimization, providing data-efficient models that are more interpretable and generalizable and have proven effective for control. In this review, we explore the use of sparse optimization in the context of machine learning to develop compact models and controllers that are easy to train, require significantly less data, and make low-latency predictions. In particular, we focus on applications in model predictive control and reinforcement learning, two of the foundational algorithms in control theory.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/cd8a9949e076a91f3d00ca620959cc6994a995a0" target='_blank'>Machine Learning for Sparse Nonlinear Modeling and Control</a></td>
          <td>
            S. Brunton, Nicholas Zolman, J. Kutz, Urban Fasel
          </td>
          <td>2025-01-14</td>
          <td>Annu. Rev. Control. Robotics Auton. Syst.</td>
          <td>9</td>
          <td>74</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="In control design most control strategies are model-based and require accurate models to be applied successfully. Due to simplifications and the model-reality-gap physics-derived models frequently exhibit deviations from real-world-systems. Likewise, purely data-driven methods often do not generalise well enough and may violate physical laws. Recently Physics-Guided Neural Networks (PGNN) and physics-inspired loss functions separately have shown promising results to conquer these drawbacks. In this contribution we extend existing methods towards the identification of non-autonomous systems and propose a combined approach PGNN-L, which uses a PGNN and a physics-inspired loss term (-L) to successfully identify the system's dynamics, while maintaining the consistency with physical laws. The proposed method is demonstrated on two real-world nonlinear systems and outperforms existing techniques regarding complexity and reliability.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/63d38b16f00d3103741b6dc3c4361488f48eaeed" target='_blank'>Composed Physics- and Data-driven System Identification for Non-autonomous Systems in Control Engineering</a></td>
          <td>
            Ricarda-Samantha Götte, Julia Timmermann
          </td>
          <td>2021-12-15</td>
          <td>2022 3rd International Conference on Artificial Intelligence, Robotics and Control (AIRC)</td>
          <td>5</td>
          <td>6</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Data-driven discovery of dynamics via machine learning is pushing the frontiers of modelling and control efforts, providing a tremendous opportunity to extend the reach of model predictive control (MPC). However, many leading methods in machine learning, such as neural networks (NN), require large volumes of training data, may not be interpretable, do not easily include known constraints and symmetries, and may not generalize beyond the attractor where models are trained. These factors limit their use for the online identification of a model in the low-data limit, for example following an abrupt change to the system dynamics. In this work, we extend the recent sparse identification of nonlinear dynamics (SINDY) modelling procedure to include the effects of actuation and demonstrate the ability of these models to enhance the performance of MPC, based on limited, noisy data. SINDY models are parsimonious, identifying the fewest terms in the model needed to explain the data, making them interpretable and generalizable. We show that the resulting SINDY-MPC framework has higher performance, requires significantly less data, and is more computationally efficient and robust to noise than NN models, making it viable for online training and execution in response to rapid system changes. SINDY-MPC also shows improved performance over linear data-driven models, although linear models may provide a stopgap until enough data is available for SINDY. SINDY-MPC is demonstrated on a variety of dynamical systems with different challenges, including the chaotic Lorenz system, a simple model for flight control of an F8 aircraft, and an HIV model incorporating drug treatment.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b2eb064f432557c59ce99834d7dc7817e4687271" target='_blank'>Sparse identification of nonlinear dynamics for model predictive control in the low-data limit</a></td>
          <td>
            E. Kaiser, J. Kutz, S. Brunton
          </td>
          <td>2017-11-15</td>
          <td>Proceedings. Mathematical, Physical, and Engineering Sciences</td>
          <td>566</td>
          <td>74</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/acd85b948087067938680356a0cb7597de12a25d" target='_blank'>Data-based modeling and control of nonlinear process systems using sparse identification: An overview of recent results</a></td>
          <td>
            Fahim Abdullah, P. Christofides
          </td>
          <td>2023-03-01</td>
          <td>Comput. Chem. Eng.</td>
          <td>32</td>
          <td>77</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Accurately modelling the nonlinear dynamics of a system from measurement data is a challenging yet vital topic. The sparse identification of nonlinear dynamics (SINDy) algorithm is one approach to discover dynamical systems models from data. Although extensions have been developed to identify implicit dynamics, or dynamics described by rational functions, these extensions are extremely sensitive to noise. In this work, we develop SINDy-PI (parallel, implicit), a robust variant of the SINDy algorithm to identify implicit dynamics and rational nonlinearities. The SINDy-PI framework includes multiple optimization algorithms and a principled approach to model selection. We demonstrate the ability of this algorithm to learn implicit ordinary and partial differential equations and conservation laws from limited and noisy data. In particular, we show that the proposed approach is several orders of magnitude more noise robust than previous approaches, and may be used to identify a class of ODE and PDE dynamics that were previously unattainable with SINDy, including for the double pendulum dynamics and simplified model for the Belousov–Zhabotinsky (BZ) reaction.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/4971f9abd024e40fbbdff2e9492745b68a6bca01" target='_blank'>SINDy-PI: a robust algorithm for parallel implicit sparse identification of nonlinear dynamics</a></td>
          <td>
            Kadierdan Kaheman, J. Kutz, S. Brunton
          </td>
          <td>2020-04-05</td>
          <td>Proceedings. Mathematical, Physical, and Engineering Sciences</td>
          <td>298</td>
          <td>74</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>