---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2024-07-15 06:05:21 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Graph Neural Ordinary Differential Equations</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="We introduce the framework of continuous-depth graph neural networks (GNNs). Neural graph differential equations (Neural GDEs) are formalized as the counterpart to GNNs where the input-output relationship is determined by a continuum of GNN layers, blending discrete topological structures and differential equations. The proposed framework is shown to be compatible with static GNN models and is extended to dynamic and stochastic settings through hybrid dynamical system theory. Here, Neural GDEs improve performance by exploiting the underlying dynamics geometry, further introducing the ability to accommodate irregularly sampled data. Results prove the effectiveness of the proposed models across applications, such as traffic forecasting or prediction in genetic regulatory networks.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/460307e2b0582aae32a9b3c95579c55672c1d1e0" target='_blank'>Continuous-Depth Neural Models for Dynamic Graph Prediction</a></td>
          <td>
            Michael Poli, Stefano Massaroli, Clayton M. Rabideau, Junyoung Park, A. Yamashita, H. Asama, Jinkyoo Park
          </td>
          <td>2021-06-22</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>7</td>
          <td>39</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Modeling continuous-time dynamics constitutes a foundational challenge, and uncovering inter-component correlations within complex systems holds promise for enhancing the efficacy of dynamic modeling. The prevailing approach of integrating graph neural networks with ordinary differential equations has demonstrated promising performance. However, they disregard the crucial signed information potential on graphs, impeding their capacity to accurately capture real-world phenomena and leading to subpar outcomes. In response, we introduce a novel approach: a signed graph neural ordinary differential equation, adeptly addressing the limitations of miscapturing signed information. Our proposed solution boasts both flexibility and efficiency. To substantiate its effectiveness, we seamlessly integrate our devised strategies into three preeminent graph-based dynamic modeling frameworks: graph neural ordinary differential equations, graph neural controlled differential equations, and graph recurrent neural networks. Rigorous assessments encompass three intricate dynamic scenarios from physics and biology, as well as scrutiny across four authentic real-world traffic datasets. Remarkably outperforming the trio of baselines, empirical results underscore the substantial performance enhancements facilitated by our proposed approach. Our code can be found at https://github.com/beautyonce/SGODE.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/45ece02ea82f79c4c678c8de8e95cd0dfbe5a37d" target='_blank'>Signed Graph Neural Ordinary Differential Equation for Modeling Continuous-time Dynamics</a></td>
          <td>
            Lanlan Chen, K. Wu, Jian Lou, Jing Liu
          </td>
          <td>2023-12-18</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>18</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Learning continuous-time dynamics on complex networks is crucial for understanding, predicting, and controlling complex systems in science and engineering. However, this task is very challenging due to the combinatorial complexities in the structures of high dimensional systems, their elusive continuous-time nonlinear dynamics, and their structural-dynamic dependencies. To address these challenges, we propose to combine Ordinary Differential Equation Systems (ODEs) and Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) to learn continuous-time dynamics on complex networks in a data-driven manner. We model differential equation systems by GNNs. Instead of mapping through a discrete number of neural layers in the forward process, we integrate GNN layers over continuous time numerically, leading to capturing continuous-time dynamics on graphs. Our model can be interpreted as a Continuous-time GNN model or a Graph Neural ODEs model. Our model can be utilized for continuous-time network dynamics prediction, structured sequence prediction (a regularly-sampled case), and node semi-supervised classification tasks (a one-snapshot case) in a unified framework. We validate our model by extensive experiments in the above three scenarios. The promising experimental results demonstrate our model's capability of jointly capturing the structure and dynamics of complex systems in a unified framework.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c2c27c1001b7cb320bf80ef3c71c4cf87b852334" target='_blank'>Neural Dynamics on Complex Networks</a></td>
          <td>
            Chengxi Zang, Fei Wang
          </td>
          <td>2019-08-18</td>
          <td>Proceedings of the 26th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery & Data Mining</td>
          <td>44</td>
          <td>38</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="In this paper, we extend the idea of continuous-depth models to pseudo graphs and present pseudo graph ordinary differential equations (PGODE), which are inspired by the neural ordinary differential equation (NODE) for data in the Euclidean domain. All existing graph networks have discrete depth. A pseudo graph neural network (PGNN) is used to parameterize the derivative of hidden node states, and the output states are the solution to this ordinary differential equation (ODE). A memory-efficient framework with precise gradient estimates is then proposed for free-form ODEs. We also introduce the framework of continuous–depth pseudo graph neural networks (PGNNs) on ODE by blending discrete structures and differential equations">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/d187ea847836a8c7d4ee0ea72dfae3ae5431a260" target='_blank'>Pseudo-Graph Neural Networks On Ordinary Differential Equations</a></td>
          <td>
            Vembu B, Loghambal S
          </td>
          <td>2022-03-22</td>
          <td>Journal of Computational Mathematica</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>0</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="This paper focuses on representation learning for dynamic graphs with temporal interactions. A fundamental issue is that both the graph structure and the nodes own their own dynamics, and their blending induces intractable complexity in the temporal evolution over graphs. Drawing inspiration from the recent process of physical dynamic models in deep neural networks, we propose Graph Neural Controlled Differential Equation (GN-CDE) model, a generic differential model for dynamic graphs that characterise the continuously dynamic evolution of node embedding trajectories with a neural network parameterised vector field and the derivatives of interactions w.r.t. time. Our framework exhibits several desirable characteristics, including the ability to express dynamics on evolving graphs without integration by segments, the capability to calibrate trajectories with subsequent data, and robustness to missing observations. Empirical evaluation on a range of dynamic graph representation learning tasks demonstrates the superiority of our proposed approach compared to the baselines.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/58a2baecdc4e4b3f16d1899c0f1080cefe73013a" target='_blank'>Learning Dynamic Graph Embeddings with Neural Controlled Differential Equations</a></td>
          <td>
            Tiexin Qin, Benjamin Walker, Terry Lyons, Hongfei Yan, Hao Li
          </td>
          <td>2023-02-22</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>48</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="We propose Graph-Coupled Oscillator Networks (GraphCON), a novel framework for deep learning on graphs. It is based on discretizations of a second-order system of ordinary differential equations (ODEs), which model a network of nonlinear controlled and damped oscillators, coupled via the adjacency structure of the underlying graph. The flexibility of our framework permits any basic GNN layer (e.g. convolutional or attentional) as the coupling function, from which a multi-layer deep neural network is built up via the dynamics of the proposed ODEs. We relate the oversmoothing problem, commonly encountered in GNNs, to the stability of steady states of the underlying ODE and show that zero-Dirichlet energy steady states are not stable for our proposed ODEs. This demonstrates that the proposed framework mitigates the oversmoothing problem. Moreover, we prove that GraphCON mitigates the exploding and vanishing gradients problem to facilitate training of deep multi-layer GNNs. Finally, we show that our approach offers competitive performance with respect to the state-of-the-art on a variety of graph-based learning tasks.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/a50a2a191c98dfe045ac2139495ee80ff1338e47" target='_blank'>Graph-Coupled Oscillator Networks</a></td>
          <td>
            T. Konstantin Rusch, B. Chamberlain, J. Rowbottom, S. Mishra, M. Bronstein
          </td>
          <td>2022-02-04</td>
          <td>ArXiv, DBLP</td>
          <td>70</td>
          <td>76</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="We introduce the FRactional-Order graph Neural Dynamical network (FROND), a new continuous graph neural network (GNN) framework. Unlike traditional continuous GNNs that rely on integer-order differential equations, FROND employs the Caputo fractional derivative to leverage the non-local properties of fractional calculus. This approach enables the capture of long-term dependencies in feature updates, moving beyond the Markovian update mechanisms in conventional integer-order models and offering enhanced capabilities in graph representation learning. We offer an interpretation of the node feature updating process in FROND from a non-Markovian random walk perspective when the feature updating is particularly governed by a diffusion process. We demonstrate analytically that oversmoothing can be mitigated in this setting. Experimentally, we validate the FROND framework by comparing the fractional adaptations of various established integer-order continuous GNNs, demonstrating their consistently improved performance and underscoring the framework's potential as an effective extension to enhance traditional continuous GNNs. The code is available at \url{https://github.com/zknus/ICLR2024-FROND}.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/900fc1f1d2b9ceeacbc92d74491b0a19c823af20" target='_blank'>Unleashing the Potential of Fractional Calculus in Graph Neural Networks with FROND</a></td>
          <td>
            Qiyu Kang, Kai Zhao, Qinxu Ding, Feng Ji, Xuhao Li, Wenfei Liang, Yang Song, Wee Peng Tay
          </td>
          <td>2024-04-26</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>9</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) have established themselves as the preferred methodology in a multitude of domains, ranging from computer vision to computational biology, especially in contexts where data inherently conform to graph structures. While many existing methods have endeavored to model GNNs using various techniques, a prevalent challenge they grapple with is the issue of over-smoothing. This paper presents new Graph Neural Network models that incorporate two first-order Partial Differential Equations (PDEs). These models do not increase complexity but effectively mitigate the over-smoothing problem. Our experimental findings highlight the capacity of our new PDE model to achieve comparable results with higher-order PDE models and fix the over-smoothing problem up to 64 layers. These results underscore the adaptability and versatility of GNNs, indicating that unconventional approaches can yield outcomes on par with established techniques.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/893093c71f2ae257120ae6789b3f86dc0dfeeaa1" target='_blank'>First-order PDES for Graph Neural Networks: Advection And Burgers Equation Models</a></td>
          <td>
            Yifan Qu, O. Krzysik, H. Sterck, Omer Ege Kara
          </td>
          <td>2024-04-03</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>25</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>