---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2024-07-15 06:05:35 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Physical Design using Differentiable Learned Simulators</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="We present a novel framework to explore neural control and design of complex fluidic systems with dynamic solid boundaries. Our system features a fast differentiable Navier-Stokes solver with solid-fluid interface handling, a low-dimensional differentiable parametric geometry representation, a control-shape co-design algorithm, and gym-like simulation environments to facilitate various fluidic control design applications. Additionally, we present a benchmark of design, control, and learning tasks on high-fidelity, high-resolution dynamic fluid environments that pose challenges for existing differentiable fluid simulators. These tasks include designing the control of artificial hearts, identifying robotic end-effector shapes, and controlling a fluid gate. By seamlessly incorporating our differentiable fluid simulator into a learning framework, we demonstrate successful design, control, and learning results that surpass gradient-free solutions in these benchmark tasks.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/527f3a03a03d3573ea5d162c03cf4e251f6fb9bd" target='_blank'>Neural Fluidic System Design and Control with Differentiable Simulation</a></td>
          <td>
            Yifei Li, Yuchen Sun, Pingchuan Ma, Eftychios Sifakis, Tao Du, Bo Zhu, Wojciech Matusik
          </td>
          <td>2024-05-22</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>33</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="We leverage physics-embedded differentiable graph network simulators (GNS) to accelerate particulate and fluid simulations to solve forward and inverse problems. GNS represents the domain as a graph with particles as nodes and learned interactions as edges. Compared to modeling global dynamics, GNS enables learning local interaction laws through edge messages, improving its generalization to new environments. GNS achieves over 165x speedup for granular flow prediction compared to parallel CPU numerical simulations. We propose a novel hybrid GNS/Material Point Method (MPM) to accelerate forward simulations by minimizing error on a pure surrogate model by interleaving MPM in GNS rollouts to satisfy conservation laws and minimize errors achieving 24x speedup compared to pure numerical simulations. The differentiable GNS enables solving inverse problems through automatic differentiation, identifying material parameters that result in target runout distances. We demonstrate the ability of GNS to solve inverse problems by iteratively updating the friction angle (a material property) by computing the gradient of a loss function based on the final and target runouts, thereby identifying the friction angle that best matches the observed runout. The physics-embedded and differentiable simulators open an exciting new paradigm for AI-accelerated design, control, and optimization.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/dd68409179b26b5a21c360142f5a834fa28dcaf6" target='_blank'>Accelerating Particle and Fluid Simulations with Differentiable Graph Networks for Solving Forward and Inverse Problems</a></td>
          <td>
            Krishna Kumar, Yonjin Choi
          </td>
          <td>2023-09-23</td>
          <td>Proceedings of the SC '23 Workshops of The International Conference on High Performance Computing, Network, Storage, and Analysis</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>1</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Humans manipulate various kinds of fluids in their everyday life: creating latte art, scooping floating objects from water, rolling an ice cream cone, etc. Using robots to augment or replace human labors in these daily settings remain as a challenging task due to the multifaceted complexities of fluids. Previous research in robotic fluid manipulation mostly consider fluids governed by an ideal, Newtonian model in simple task settings (e.g., pouring). However, the vast majority of real-world fluid systems manifest their complexities in terms of the fluid's complex material behaviors and multi-component interactions, both of which were well beyond the scope of the current literature. To evaluate robot learning algorithms on understanding and interacting with such complex fluid systems, a comprehensive virtual platform with versatile simulation capabilities and well-established tasks is needed. In this work, we introduce FluidLab, a simulation environment with a diverse set of manipulation tasks involving complex fluid dynamics. These tasks address interactions between solid and fluid as well as among multiple fluids. At the heart of our platform is a fully differentiable physics simulator, FluidEngine, providing GPU-accelerated simulations and gradient calculations for various material types and their couplings. We identify several challenges for fluid manipulation learning by evaluating a set of reinforcement learning and trajectory optimization methods on our platform. To address these challenges, we propose several domain-specific optimization schemes coupled with differentiable physics, which are empirically shown to be effective in tackling optimization problems featured by fluid system's non-convex and non-smooth properties. Furthermore, we demonstrate reasonable sim-to-real transfer by deploying optimized trajectories in real-world settings.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/73003cb9f5c1b30cd495f31f70323b1b17b24ff3" target='_blank'>FluidLab: A Differentiable Environment for Benchmarking Complex Fluid Manipulation</a></td>
          <td>
            Zhou Xian, Bo Zhu, Zhenjia Xu, H. Tung, A. Torralba, Katerina Fragkiadaki, Chuang Gan
          </td>
          <td>2023-03-04</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>32</td>
          <td>127</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Differentiable physics enables efficient gradient-based optimizations of neural network (NN) controllers. However, existing work typically only delivers NN controllers with limited capability and generalizability. We present a practical learning framework that outputs unified NN controllers capable of tasks with significantly improved complexity and diversity. To systematically improve training robustness and efficiency, we investigated a suite of improvements over the baseline approach, including periodic activation functions, and tailored loss functions. In addition, we find our adoption of batching and an Adam optimizer effective in training complex locomotion tasks. We evaluate our framework on differentiable mass-spring and material point method (MPM) simulations, with challenging locomotion tasks and multiple robot designs. Experiments show that our learning framework, based on differentiable physics, delivers better results than reinforcement learning and converges much faster. We demonstrate that users can interactively control soft robot locomotion and switch among multiple goals with specified velocity, height, and direction instructions using a unified NN controller trained in our system. Code is available at https://github.com/erizmr/Complex-locomotion-skill-learning-via-differentiable-physics.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/7b520ede894490bd202f6606cfb2fcfc8b9ae9fa" target='_blank'>Complex Locomotion Skill Learning via Differentiable Physics</a></td>
          <td>
            Yu Fang, Jiancheng Liu, Mingrui Zhang, Jiasheng Zhang, Y. Ma, Minchen Li, Yuanming Hu, Chenfanfu Jiang, Tiantian Liu
          </td>
          <td>2022-06-06</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>4</td>
          <td>35</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The manifold hypothesis forms a pillar of many modern machine learning techniques. Within the context of design, it proposes that valid designs reside on low dimensional manifolds in the high dimensional design spaces. Our previous research—BézierGAN—suggests learning the low dimensional parameterization of valid airfoil designs can indeed accelerate aerodynamic optimizations. However, it incurs problems such as misalignment, long training time, and the trouble of finding the latent dimensionality. In this work we present the optimal-transport-based sibling of BézierGAN that surpass its predecessor in terms of both manifold approximating precision and learning speed, and provide methodology that helps determine the intrinsic dimension of the design manifold beforehand.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/a3d57a0669fdee17dce11f890b69a802a6519612" target='_blank'>Learning Airfoil Manifolds with Optimal Transport</a></td>
          <td>
            Qiuyi Chen, Phillip E. Pope, M. Fuge
          </td>
          <td>2022-01-03</td>
          <td>AIAA SCITECH 2022 Forum</td>
          <td>4</td>
          <td>20</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Inverse design, where we seek to design input variables in order to optimize an underlying objective function, is an important problem that arises across fields such as mechanical engineering to aerospace engineering. Inverse design is typically formulated as an optimization problem, with recent works leveraging optimization across learned dynamics models. However, as models are optimized they tend to fall into adversarial modes, preventing effective sampling. We illustrate that by instead optimizing over the learned energy function captured by the diffusion model, we can avoid such adversarial examples and significantly improve design performance. We further illustrate how such a design system is compositional, enabling us to combine multiple different diffusion models representing subcomponents of our desired system to design systems with every specified component. In an N-body interaction task and a challenging 2D multi-airfoil design task, we demonstrate that by composing the learned diffusion model at test time, our method allows us to design initial states and boundary shapes that are more complex than those in the training data. Our method generalizes to more objects for N-body dataset and discovers formation flying to minimize drag in the multi-airfoil design task. Project website and code can be found at https://github.com/AI4Science-WestlakeU/cindm.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/ebfcbc508023b3033aa421ce7d2344a52de696f6" target='_blank'>Compositional Generative Inverse Design</a></td>
          <td>
            Tailin Wu, Takashi Maruyama, Long Wei, Tao Zhang, Yilun Du, Gianluca Iaccarino, J. Leskovec
          </td>
          <td>2024-01-24</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>134</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Iterative solvers are widely used to accurately simulate physical systems. These solvers require initial guesses to generate a sequence of improving approximate solutions. In this contribution, we introduce a novel method to accelerate iterative solvers for physical systems with graph networks (GNs) by predicting the initial guesses to reduce the number of iterations. Unlike existing methods that aim to learn physical systems in an end-to-end manner, our approach guarantees long-term stability and therefore leads to more accurate solutions. Furthermore, our method improves the run time performance of traditional iterative solvers. To explore our method we make use of position-based dynamics (PBD) as a common solver for physical systems and evaluate it by simulating the dynamics of elastic rods. Our approach is able to generalize across different initial conditions, discretizations, and realistic material properties. Finally, we demonstrate that our method also performs well when taking discontinuous effects into account such as collisions between individual rods. A video showing dynamic results of our graph learning assisted simulations of elastic rods can be found on the project website available at this http URL .">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/0bf48ff5241fcf7116db676d87d98188dfcac175" target='_blank'>Accurately Solving Physical Systems with Graph Learning</a></td>
          <td>
            Han Shao, Tassilo Kugelstadt, Wojciech Palubicki, Jan Bender, S. Pirk, D. Michels
          </td>
          <td>2020-06-06</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>5</td>
          <td>27</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="We introduce an efficient differentiable fluid simulator that can be integrated with deep neural networks as a part of layers for learning dynamics and solving control problems. It offers the capability to handle one-way coupling of fluids with rigid objects using a variational principle that naturally enforces necessary boundary conditions at the fluid-solid interface with sub-grid details. This simulator utilizes the adjoint method to efficiently compute the gradient for multiple time steps of fluid simulation with user defined objective functions. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our method for solving inverse and control problems on fluids with one-way coupled solids. Our method outperforms the previous gradient computations, state-of-the-art derivative-free optimization, and model-free reinforcement learning techniques by at least one order of magnitude.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/ccbaf40ac70e0c1812910048816b0dcd3332cd97" target='_blank'>Differentiable Fluids with Solid Coupling for Learning and Control</a></td>
          <td>
            Tetsuya Takahashi, Junbang Liang, Yi-Ling Qiao, M. Lin
          </td>
          <td>2021-05-18</td>
          <td>DBLP</td>
          <td>26</td>
          <td>78</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="
 Humans as designers have quite versatile problem-solving strategies. Computer agents on the other hand can access large-scale computational resources to solve certain design problems. Hence, if agents can learn from human behavior, a synergetic human-agent problem-solving team can be created. This paper presents an approach to extract human design strategies and implicit rules, purely from historical human data, and use that for design generation. A two-step framework that learns to imitate human design strategies from observation is proposed and implemented. This framework makes use of deep learning constructs to learn to generate designs without any explicit information about objective and performance metrics. The framework is designed to interact with the problem through a visual interface as humans did when solving the problem. It is trained to imitate a set of human designers by observing their design state sequences without inducing problem-specific modeling bias or extra information about the problem. Furthermore, an end-to-end agent is developed that uses this deep learning framework as its core in conjunction with image processing to map pixel-to-design moves as a mechanism to generate designs. Finally, the designs generated by a computational team of these agents are then compared with actual human data for teams solving a truss design problem. Results demonstrate that these agents are able to create feasible and efficient truss designs without guidance, showing that this methodology allows agents to learn effective design strategies.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/cbcefe2282397911b17949f535438314a97ec1b8" target='_blank'>Learning to design from humans: Imitating human designers through deep learning</a></td>
          <td>
            Ayush Raina, Christopher McComb, J. Cagan
          </td>
          <td>2019-07-26</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>55</td>
          <td>50</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>