---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2024-07-15 06:05:33 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Graph network simulators can learn discontinuous, rigid contact dynamics</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="Common methods for learning robot dynamics assume motion is continuous, causing unrealistic model predictions for systems undergoing discontinuous impact and stiction behavior. In this work, we resolve this conflict with a smooth, implicit encoding of the structure inherent to contact-induced discontinuities. Our method, ContactNets, learns parameterizations of inter-body signed distance and contact-frame Jacobians, a representation that is compatible with many simulation, control, and planning environments for robotics. We furthermore circumvent the need to differentiate through stiff or non-smooth dynamics with a novel loss function inspired by the principles of complementarity and maximum dissipation. Our method can predict realistic impact, non-penetration, and stiction when trained on 60 seconds of real-world data.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/13e0e335c0471e16bb92a283cfc6817f8ceda566" target='_blank'>ContactNets: Learning of Discontinuous Contact Dynamics with Smooth, Implicit Representations</a></td>
          <td>
            Samuel Pfrommer, Mathew Halm, Michael Posa
          </td>
          <td>2020-09-23</td>
          <td>MAG, ArXiv, DBLP</td>
          <td>66</td>
          <td>18</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Learning physically structured representa-tions of dynamical systems that include contact between diﬀerent objects is an important problem for learning-based approaches in robotics. Black-box neural networks can learn to approximately represent discontinuous dynamics, but they typically require large quantities of data and often suﬀer from patho-logical behaviour when forecasting for longer time horizons. In this work, we use connec-tions between deep neural networks and dif-ferential equations to design a family of deep network architectures for representing contact dynamics between objects. We show that these networks can learn discontinuous contact events in a data-eﬃcient manner from noisy observations in settings that are tra-ditionally diﬃcult for black-box approaches and recent physics inspired neural networks. Our results indicate that an idealised form of touch feedback—which is heavily relied upon by biological systems—is a key component of making this learning problem tractable. Together with the inductive biases introduced through the network architectures, our techniques enable accurate learning of contact dynamics from observations.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/bd42788e01e9f8c35aa45440cd7edf484fb27528" target='_blank'>Learning Contact Dynamics using Physically Structured Neural Networks</a></td>
          <td>
            Andreas Hochlehnert, Alexander Terenin, Steindór Sæmundsson, M. Deisenroth
          </td>
          <td>2021-02-22</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>14</td>
          <td>44</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Frictional contact has been extensively studied as the core underlying behavior of legged locomotion and manipulation, and its nearly-discontinuous nature makes planning and control difficult even when an accurate model of the robot is available. Here, we present empirical evidence that learning an accurate model in the first place can be confounded by contact, as modern deep learning approaches are not designed to capture this non-smoothness. We isolate the effects of contact’s non-smoothness by varying the mechanical stiffness of a compliant contact simulator. Even for a simple system, we find that stiffness alone dramatically degrades training processes, generalization, and data-efficiency. Our results raise serious questions about simulated testing environments which do not accurately reflect the stiffness of rigid robotic hardware. Significant additional investigation will be necessary to fully understand and mitigate these effects, and we suggest several avenues for future study.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/bfbd66fc944115ed6c8ca8755db3daec1b7b2621" target='_blank'>Fundamental Challenges in Deep Learning for Stiff Contact Dynamics</a></td>
          <td>
            Mihir Parmar, Mathew Halm, Michael Posa
          </td>
          <td>2021-03-29</td>
          <td>2021 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS)</td>
          <td>30</td>
          <td>18</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The incorporation of appropriate inductive bias plays a critical role in learning dynamics from data. A growing body of work has been exploring ways to enforce energy conservation in the learned dynamics by encoding Lagrangian or Hamiltonian dynamics into the neural network architecture. These existing approaches are based on differential equations, which do not allow discontinuity in the states and thereby limit the class of systems one can learn. However, in reality, most physical systems, such as legged robots and robotic manipulators, involve contacts and collisions, which introduce discontinuities in the states. In this paper, we introduce a differentiable contact model, which can capture contact mechanics: frictionless/frictional, as well as elastic/inelastic. This model can also accommodate inequality constraints, such as limits on the joint angles. The proposed contact model extends the scope of Lagrangian and Hamiltonian neural networks by allowing simultaneous learning of contact and system properties. We demonstrate this framework on a series of challenging 2D and 3D physical systems with different coefficients of restitution and friction. The learned dynamics can be used as a differentiable physics simulator for downstream gradient-based optimization tasks, such as planning and control.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/7e1438c3b39e4a533cd2369fc181c65800979b5a" target='_blank'>Extending Lagrangian and Hamiltonian Neural Networks with Differentiable Contact Models</a></td>
          <td>
            Yaofeng Desmond Zhong, Biswadip Dey, Amit Chakraborty
          </td>
          <td>2021-02-12</td>
          <td>ArXiv, DBLP</td>
          <td>29</td>
          <td>16</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Recently, many mesh-based graph neural network (GNN) models have been proposed for modeling complex high-dimensional physical systems. Remarkable achievements have been made in significantly reducing the solving time compared to traditional numerical solvers. These methods are typically designed to i) reduce the computational cost in solving physical dynamics and/or ii) propose techniques to enhance the solution accuracy in fluid and rigid body dynamics. However, it remains under-explored whether they are effective in addressing the challenges of flexible body dynamics, where instantaneous collisions occur within a very short timeframe. In this paper, we present Hierarchical Contact Mesh Transformer (HCMT), which uses hierarchical mesh structures and can learn long-range dependencies (occurred by collisions) among spatially distant positions of a body -- two close positions in a higher-level mesh correspond to two distant positions in a lower-level mesh. HCMT enables long-range interactions, and the hierarchical mesh structure quickly propagates collision effects to faraway positions. To this end, it consists of a contact mesh Transformer and a hierarchical mesh Transformer (CMT and HMT, respectively). Lastly, we propose a flexible body dynamics dataset, consisting of trajectories that reflect experimental settings frequently used in the display industry for product designs. We also compare the performance of several baselines using well-known benchmark datasets. Our results show that HCMT provides significant performance improvements over existing methods. Our code is available at https://github.com/yuyudeep/hcmt.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/6c7dbbb11ba59c09bf73869f9fa5f73fd5d17e72" target='_blank'>Learning Flexible Body Collision Dynamics with Hierarchical Contact Mesh Transformer</a></td>
          <td>
            Youn-Yeol Yu, Jeongwhan Choi, Woojin Cho, Kookjin Lee, Nayong Kim, Kiseok Chang, ChangSeung Woo, Ilho Kim, Seok-Woo Lee, Joon Young Yang, S. Yoon, Noseong Park
          </td>
          <td>2023-12-19</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>8</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Robotic manipulation can greatly benefit from the data efficiency, robustness, and predictability of model-based methods if robots can quickly generate models of novel objects they encounter. This is especially difficult when effects like complex joint friction lack clear first-principles models and are usually ignored by physics simulators. Further, numerically-stiff contact dynamics can make common model-building approaches struggle. We propose a method to simultaneously learn contact and continuous dynamics of a novel, possibly multi-link object by observing its motion through contact-rich trajectories. We formulate a system identification process with a loss that infers unmeasured contact forces, penalizing their violation of physical constraints and laws of motion given current model parameters. Our loss is unlike prediction-based losses used in differentiable simulation. Using a new dataset of real articulated object trajectories and an existing cube toss dataset, our method outperforms differentiable simulation and end-to-end alternatives with more data efficiency. See our project page for code, datasets, and media: https://sites.google.com/view/continuous-contact-nets/home">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/128550ef51c2044306d3f4a4aa9adca661837e5d" target='_blank'>Simultaneous Learning of Contact and Continuous Dynamics</a></td>
          <td>
            Bibit Bianchini, Mathew Halm, Michael Posa
          </td>
          <td>2023-10-18</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>5</td>
          <td>18</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) have become a prevailing tool for learning physical dynamics. However, they still encounter several challenges: 1) Physical laws abide by symmetry, which is a vital inductive bias accounting for model generalization and should be incorporated into the model design. Existing simulators either consider insufficient symmetry, or enforce excessive equivariance in practice when symmetry is partially broken by gravity. 2) Objects in the physical world possess diverse shapes, sizes, and properties, which should be appropriately processed by the model. To tackle these difficulties, we propose a novel backbone, Subequivariant Graph Neural Network, which 1) relaxes equivariance to subequivariance by considering external fields like gravity, where the universal approximation ability holds theoretically; 2) introduces a new subequivariant object-aware message passing for learning physical interactions between multiple objects of various shapes in the particle-based representation; 3) operates in a hierarchical fashion, allowing for modeling long-range and complex interactions. Our model achieves on average over 3% enhancement in contact prediction accuracy across 8 scenarios on Physion and 2X lower rollout MSE on RigidFall compared with state-of-the-art GNN simulators, while exhibiting strong generalization and data efficiency.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/91090894c7fda3a19000f7224349e9168f9d7d42" target='_blank'>Learning Physical Dynamics with Subequivariant Graph Neural Networks</a></td>
          <td>
            Jiaqi Han, Wenbing Huang, Hengbo Ma, Jiachen Li, J. Tenenbaum, Chuang Gan
          </td>
          <td>2022-10-13</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>20</td>
          <td>124</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Simulating rigid collisions among arbitrary shapes is notoriously difficult due to complex geometry and the strong non-linearity of the interactions. While graph neural network (GNN)-based models are effective at learning to simulate complex physical dynamics, such as fluids, cloth and articulated bodies, they have been less effective and efficient on rigid-body physics, except with very simple shapes. Existing methods that model collisions through the meshes' nodes are often inaccurate because they struggle when collisions occur on faces far from nodes. Alternative approaches that represent the geometry densely with many particles are prohibitively expensive for complex shapes. Here we introduce the Face Interaction Graph Network (FIGNet) which extends beyond GNN-based methods, and computes interactions between mesh faces, rather than nodes. Compared to learned node- and particle-based methods, FIGNet is around 4x more accurate in simulating complex shape interactions, while also 8x more computationally efficient on sparse, rigid meshes. Moreover, FIGNet can learn frictional dynamics directly from real-world data, and can be more accurate than analytical solvers given modest amounts of training data. FIGNet represents a key step forward in one of the few remaining physical domains which have seen little competition from learned simulators, and offers allied fields such as robotics, graphics and mechanical design a new tool for simulation and model-based planning.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/d6fdd8fc0c5fc052d040687e72638fb4297661cc" target='_blank'>Learning rigid dynamics with face interaction graph networks</a></td>
          <td>
            Kelsey R. Allen, Yulia Rubanova, Tatiana Lopez-Guevara, William F. Whitney, Alvaro Sanchez-Gonzalez, P. Battaglia, T. Pfaff
          </td>
          <td>2022-12-07</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>21</td>
          <td>46</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>