---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2024-07-15 06:05:35 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Learning Mesh-Based Simulation with Graph Networks</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="Continuum mechanics simulators, numerically solving one or more partial differential equations, are essential tools in many areas of science and engineering, but their performance often limits application in practice. Recent modern machine learning approaches have demonstrated their ability to accelerate spatio-temporal predictions, although, with only moderate accuracy in comparison. Here we introduce MultiScaleGNN, a novel multi-scale graph neural network model for learning to infer unsteady continuum mechanics. MultiScaleGNN represents the physical domain as an unstructured set of nodes, and it constructs one or more graphs, each of them encoding different scales of spatial resolution. Successive learnt message passing between these graphs improves the ability of GNNs to capture and forecast the system state in problems encompassing a range of length scales. Using graph representations, MultiScaleGNN can impose periodic boundary conditions as an inductive bias on the edges in the graphs, and achieve independence to the nodes' positions. We demonstrate this method on advection problems and incompressible fluid dynamics. Our results show that the proposed model can generalise from uniform advection fields to high-gradient fields on complex domains at test time and infer long-term Navier-Stokes solutions within a range of Reynolds numbers. Simulations obtained with MultiScaleGNN are between two and four orders of magnitude faster than the ones on which it was trained.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/bc9df947dee9aa269ef9d5fcd06980598293aea5" target='_blank'>Simulating Continuum Mechanics with Multi-Scale Graph Neural Networks</a></td>
          <td>
            Mario Lino, C. Cantwell, A. Bharath, Stathi Fotiadis
          </td>
          <td>2021-06-09</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>37</td>
          <td>23</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Data-driven modeling approaches can produce fast surrogates to study large-scale physics problems. Among them, graph neural networks (GNNs) that operate on mesh-based data are desirable because they possess inductive biases that promote physical faithfulness, but hardware limitations have precluded their application to large computational domains. We show that it is \textit{possible} to train a class of GNN surrogates on 3D meshes. We scale MeshGraphNets (MGN), a subclass of GNNs for mesh-based physics modeling, via our domain decomposition approach to facilitate training that is mathematically equivalent to training on the whole domain under certain conditions. With this, we were able to train MGN on meshes with \textit{millions} of nodes to generate computational fluid dynamics (CFD) simulations. Furthermore, we show how to enhance MGN via higher-order numerical integration, which can reduce MGN's error and training time. We validated our methods on an accompanying dataset of 3D $\text{CO}_2$-capture CFD simulations on a 3.1M-node mesh. This work presents a practical path to scaling MGN for real-world applications.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e8c880ff190ca6184e2d18f2a87ccb992951e435" target='_blank'>Scientific Computing Algorithms to Learn Enhanced Scalable Surrogates for Mesh Physics</a></td>
          <td>
            Brian Bartoldson, Yeping Hu, Amarjeet Saini, Jose Cadena, Yu-Hang Fu, Jie Bao, Zhijie Xu, Brenda Ng, P. Nguyen
          </td>
          <td>2023-04-01</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>12</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="In recent years, there has been a growing interest in using machine learning to overcome the high cost of numerical simulation, with some learned models achieving impressive speed-ups over classical solvers whilst maintaining accuracy. However, these methods are usually tested at low-resolution settings, and it remains to be seen whether they can scale to the costly high-resolution simulations that we ultimately want to tackle. In this work, we propose two complementary approaches to improve the framework from MeshGraphNets, which demonstrated accurate predictions in a broad range of physical systems. MeshGraphNets relies on a message passing graph neural network to propagate information, and this structure becomes a limiting factor for high-resolution simulations, as equally distant points in space become further apart in graph space. First, we demonstrate that it is possible to learn accurate surrogate dynamics of a high-resolution system on a much coarser mesh, both removing the message passing bottleneck and improving performance; and second, we introduce a hierarchical approach (MultiScale MeshGraphNets) which passes messages on two different resolutions (fine and coarse), significantly improving the accuracy of MeshGraphNets while requiring less computational resources.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b6841ed68e0e6d9cabeb28e9dfca22ffa853f30f" target='_blank'>MultiScale MeshGraphNets</a></td>
          <td>
            Meire Fortunato, Tobias Pfaff, Peter Wirnsberger, A. Pritzel, Peter W. Battaglia
          </td>
          <td>2022-10-02</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>45</td>
          <td>27</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Here we present a machine learning framework and model implementation that can learn to simulate a wide variety of challenging physical domains, involving fluids, rigid solids, and deformable materials interacting with one another. Our framework---which we term "Graph Network-based Simulators" (GNS)---represents the state of a physical system with particles, expressed as nodes in a graph, and computes dynamics via learned message-passing. Our results show that our model can generalize from single-timestep predictions with thousands of particles during training, to different initial conditions, thousands of timesteps, and at least an order of magnitude more particles at test time. Our model was robust to hyperparameter choices across various evaluation metrics: the main determinants of long-term performance were the number of message-passing steps, and mitigating the accumulation of error by corrupting the training data with noise. Our GNS framework advances the state-of-the-art in learned physical simulation, and holds promise for solving a wide range of complex forward and inverse problems.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c529f5b08675f787cdcc094ee495239592339f82" target='_blank'>Learning to Simulate Complex Physics with Graph Networks</a></td>
          <td>
            Alvaro Sanchez-Gonzalez, Jonathan Godwin, T. Pfaff, Rex Ying, J. Leskovec, P. Battaglia
          </td>
          <td>2020-02-21</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>845</td>
          <td>134</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Simulating fluid dynamics is crucial for the design and development process, ranging from simple valves to complex turbomachinery. Accurately solving the underlying physical equations is computationally expensive. Therefore, learning-based solvers that model interactions on meshes have gained interest due to their promising speed-ups. However, it is unknown to what extent these models truly understand the underlying physical principles and can generalize rather than interpolate. Generalization is a key requirement for a general-purpose fluid simulator, which should adapt to different topologies, resolutions, or thermodynamic ranges. We propose SURF, a benchmark designed to test the $\textit{generalization}$ of learned graph-based fluid simulators. SURF comprises individual datasets and provides specific performance and generalization metrics for evaluating and comparing different models. We empirically demonstrate the applicability of SURF by thoroughly investigating the two state-of-the-art graph-based models, yielding new insights into their generalization.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b36fc1fa1cf02a8594911f3e6491deb33637843f" target='_blank'>SURF: A Generalization Benchmark for GNNs Predicting Fluid Dynamics</a></td>
          <td>
            Stefan Künzli, Florian Grötschla, Joël Mathys, R. Wattenhofer
          </td>
          <td>2023-10-30</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>18</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Mesh-based Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) have recently shown capabilities to simulate complex multiphysics problems with accelerated performance times. However, mesh-based GNNs require a large number of message-passing (MP) steps and suffer from over-smoothing for problems involving very fine mesh. In this work, we develop a multiscale mesh-based GNN framework mimicking a conventional iterative multigrid solver, coupled with adaptive mesh refinement (AMR), to mitigate challenges with conventional mesh-based GNNs. We use the framework to accelerate phase field (PF) fracture problems involving coupled partial differential equations with a near-singular operator due to near-zero modulus inside the crack. We define the initial graph representation using all mesh resolution levels. We perform a series of downsampling steps using Transformer MP GNNs to reach the coarsest graph followed by upsampling steps to reach the original graph. We use skip connectors from the generated embedding during coarsening to prevent over-smoothing. We use Transfer Learning (TL) to significantly reduce the size of training datasets needed to simulate different crack configurations and loading conditions. The trained framework showed accelerated simulation times, while maintaining high accuracy for all cases compared to physics-based PF fracture model. Finally, this work provides a new approach to accelerate a variety of mesh-based engineering multiphysics problems">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/a5805fc04ef9c6bd5534b36fbc2a6a1838c094d5" target='_blank'>Multiscale graph neural networks with adaptive mesh refinement for accelerating mesh-based simulations</a></td>
          <td>
            Roberto Perera, V. Agrawal
          </td>
          <td>2024-02-14</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>10</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Simulating rigid collisions among arbitrary shapes is notoriously difficult due to complex geometry and the strong non-linearity of the interactions. While graph neural network (GNN)-based models are effective at learning to simulate complex physical dynamics, such as fluids, cloth and articulated bodies, they have been less effective and efficient on rigid-body physics, except with very simple shapes. Existing methods that model collisions through the meshes' nodes are often inaccurate because they struggle when collisions occur on faces far from nodes. Alternative approaches that represent the geometry densely with many particles are prohibitively expensive for complex shapes. Here we introduce the Face Interaction Graph Network (FIGNet) which extends beyond GNN-based methods, and computes interactions between mesh faces, rather than nodes. Compared to learned node- and particle-based methods, FIGNet is around 4x more accurate in simulating complex shape interactions, while also 8x more computationally efficient on sparse, rigid meshes. Moreover, FIGNet can learn frictional dynamics directly from real-world data, and can be more accurate than analytical solvers given modest amounts of training data. FIGNet represents a key step forward in one of the few remaining physical domains which have seen little competition from learned simulators, and offers allied fields such as robotics, graphics and mechanical design a new tool for simulation and model-based planning.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/d6fdd8fc0c5fc052d040687e72638fb4297661cc" target='_blank'>Learning rigid dynamics with face interaction graph networks</a></td>
          <td>
            Kelsey R. Allen, Yulia Rubanova, Tatiana Lopez-Guevara, William F. Whitney, Alvaro Sanchez-Gonzalez, P. Battaglia, T. Pfaff
          </td>
          <td>2022-12-07</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>21</td>
          <td>46</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Solving complex Partial Differential Equations (PDEs) accurately and efficiently is an essential and challenging problem in all scientific and engineering disciplines. Mesh movement methods provide the capability to improve the accuracy of the numerical solution without increasing the overall mesh degree of freedom count. Conventional sophisticated mesh movement methods are extremely expensive and struggle to handle scenarios with complex boundary geometries. However, existing learning-based methods require re-training from scratch given a different PDE type or boundary geometry, which limits their applicability, and also often suffer from robustness issues in the form of inverted elements. In this paper, we introduce the Universal Mesh Movement Network (UM2N), which -- once trained -- can be applied in a non-intrusive, zero-shot manner to move meshes with different size distributions and structures, for solvers applicable to different PDE types and boundary geometries. UM2N consists of a Graph Transformer (GT) encoder for extracting features and a Graph Attention Network (GAT) based decoder for moving the mesh. We evaluate our method on advection and Navier-Stokes based examples, as well as a real-world tsunami simulation case. Our method outperforms existing learning-based mesh movement methods in terms of the benchmarks described above. In comparison to the conventional sophisticated Monge-Amp\`ere PDE-solver based method, our approach not only significantly accelerates mesh movement, but also proves effective in scenarios where the conventional method fails. Our project page is at https://erizmr.github.io/UM2N/.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/569f07b5381b1df88a804a15614ac2ddef7715f2" target='_blank'>Towards Universal Mesh Movement Networks</a></td>
          <td>
            Mingrui Zhang, Chunyang Wang, Stephan Kramer, Joseph G. Wallwork, Siyi Li, Jiancheng Liu, Xiang Chen, M. Piggott
          </td>
          <td>2024-06-29</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>38</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Simulating the time evolution of physical systems is pivotal in many scientific and engineering problems. An open challenge in simulating such systems is their multi-resolution dynamics: a small fraction of the system is extremely dynamic, and requires very fine-grained resolution, while a majority of the system is changing slowly and can be modeled by coarser spatial scales. Typical learning-based surrogate models use a uniform spatial scale, which needs to resolve to the finest required scale and can waste a huge compute to achieve required accuracy. In this work, we introduce Learning controllable Adaptive simulation for Multi-resolution Physics (LAMP) as the first full deep learning-based surrogate model that jointly learns the evolution model and optimizes appropriate spatial resolutions that devote more compute to the highly dynamic regions. LAMP consists of a Graph Neural Network (GNN) for learning the forward evolution, and a GNN-based actor-critic for learning the policy of spatial refinement and coarsening. We introduce learning techniques that optimizes LAMP with weighted sum of error and computational cost as objective, allowing LAMP to adapt to varying relative importance of error vs. computation tradeoff at inference time. We evaluate our method in a 1D benchmark of nonlinear PDEs and a challenging 2D mesh-based simulation. We demonstrate that our LAMP outperforms state-of-the-art deep learning surrogate models, and can adaptively trade-off computation to improve long-term prediction error: it achieves an average of 33.7% error reduction for 1D nonlinear PDEs, and outperforms MeshGraphNets + classical Adaptive Mesh Refinement (AMR) in 2D mesh-based simulations. Project website with data and code can be found at: http://snap.stanford.edu/lamp.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/75cb343edaaa6a5322588bf6f3ef160742e9fbc0" target='_blank'>Learning Controllable Adaptive Simulation for Multi-resolution Physics</a></td>
          <td>
            Tailin Wu, T. Maruyama, Qingqing Zhao, Gordon Wetzstein, J. Leskovec
          </td>
          <td>2023-05-01</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>12</td>
          <td>134</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>