---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2024-07-15 06:06:41 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Koopman Invariant Subspaces and Finite Linear Representations of Nonlinear Dynamical Systems for Control</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="Koopman analysis provides a general framework from which to analyze a nonlinear dynamical system in terms of a linear operator acting on an inﬁnite-dimensional observable space. This theoretical framework provides a rigorous underpinning for widely used dynamic mode decomposition algorithms. While such methods have proven to be remarkably useful in the analysis of time-series data, the resulting linear models must generally be of high order to accurately approximate fundamentally nonlinear behaviors. This issue poses an inherent risk of overﬁtting to training data thereby limiting predictive capabilities. By contrast, this work explores strategies for nonlinear data-driven estimation of the action of the Koopman operator. General strategies that yield nonlinear models are presented for systems both with and without control. Subsequent projection of the resulting nonlinear equations onto a low-rank basis yields a low order representation for the underlying dynamical system. In both computational and experimental examples considered in this work, linear estimators of the Koopman operator are generally only able to provide short-term predictions for the observable dynamics while comparable nonlinear estimators provide accurate predictions on substantially longer timescales and replicate inﬁnite-time behaviors that linear predictors cannot.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/1cda473dadc56234490012ec6c5679625cdfe565" target='_blank'>Nonlinear Data-Driven Approximation of the Koopman Operator</a></td>
          <td>
            Dan Wilson
          </td>
          <td>2022-10-10</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>19</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The Koopman operator is a linear operator that describes the evolution of scalar observables (i.e., measurement functions of the states) in an infinitedimensional Hilbert space. This operator theoretic point of view lifts the dynamics of a finite-dimensional nonlinear system to an infinite-dimensional function space where the evolution of the original system becomes linear. In this paper, we provide a brief summary of the Koopman operator theorem for nonlinear dynamics modeling and focus on analyzing several data-driven implementations using dynamical mode decomposition (DMD) for autonomous and controlled canonical problems. We apply the extended dynamic mode decomposition (EDMD) to identify the leading Koopman eigenfunctions and approximate a finite-dimensional representation of the discovered linear dynamics. This allows us to apply linear control approaches towards nonlinear systems without linearization approximations around fixed points. We can then examine the fidelity of using a linear controller based on a Koopman operator approximated system on under-actuated systems with basic maneuvers. We demonstrate the effectiveness of this theory through numerical simulation on two classic dynamical systems are used to show DMD methods of evaluating and approximating the Koopman operator and its effectiveness at linearizing these systems.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/1a76367c9b3a27f25890eee333195e3aaf8d6841" target='_blank'>Koopman Operator Theory for Nonlinear Dynamic Modeling using Dynamic Mode Decomposition</a></td>
          <td>
            Gregory F. Snyder, Zhuoyuan Song
          </td>
          <td>2021-10-16</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>8</td>
          <td>10</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The field of dynamical systems is being transformed by the mathematical tools and algorithms emerging from modern computing and data science. First-principles derivations and asymptotic reductions are giving way to data-driven approaches that formulate models in operator theoretic or probabilistic frameworks. Koopman spectral theory has emerged as a dominant perspective over the past decade, in which nonlinear dynamics are represented in terms of an infinite-dimensional linear operator acting on the space of all possible measurement functions of the system. This linear representation of nonlinear dynamics has tremendous potential to enable the prediction, estimation, and control of nonlinear systems with standard textbook methods developed for linear systems. However, obtaining finite-dimensional coordinate systems and embeddings in which the dynamics appear approximately linear remains a central open challenge. The success of Koopman analysis is due primarily to three key factors: 1) there exists rigorous theory connecting it to classical geometric approaches for dynamical systems, 2) the approach is formulated in terms of measurements, making it ideal for leveraging big-data and machine learning techniques, and 3) simple, yet powerful numerical algorithms, such as the dynamic mode decomposition (DMD), have been developed and extended to reduce Koopman theory to practice in real-world applications. In this review, we provide an overview of modern Koopman operator theory, describing recent theoretical and algorithmic developments and highlighting these methods with a diverse range of applications. We also discuss key advances and challenges in the rapidly growing field of machine learning that are likely to drive future developments and significantly transform the theoretical landscape of dynamical systems.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/68b6ca45a588d538b36335b23f6969c960cf2e6e" target='_blank'>Modern Koopman Theory for Dynamical Systems</a></td>
          <td>
            S. Brunton, M. Budišić, E. Kaiser, J. Kutz
          </td>
          <td>2021-02-24</td>
          <td>SIAM Rev.</td>
          <td>269</td>
          <td>63</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Spectral decomposition of the Koopman operator is attracting attention as a tool for the analysis of nonlinear dynamical systems. Dynamic mode decomposition is a popular numerical algorithm for Koopman spectral analysis; however, we often need to prepare nonlinear observables manually according to the underlying dynamics, which is not always possible since we may not have any a priori knowledge about them. In this paper, we propose a fully data-driven method for Koopman spectral analysis based on the principle of learning Koopman invariant subspaces from observed data. To this end, we propose minimization of the residual sum of squares of linear least-squares regression to estimate a set of functions that transforms data into a form in which the linear regression fits well. We introduce an implementation with neural networks and evaluate performance empirically using nonlinear dynamical systems and applications.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/49ee811e5c7af5980d3dfe791f6b18e0080ad566" target='_blank'>Learning Koopman Invariant Subspaces for Dynamic Mode Decomposition</a></td>
          <td>
            Naoya Takeishi, Y. Kawahara, T. Yairi
          </td>
          <td>2017-10-12</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>324</td>
          <td>24</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="We present an approach to construct approximate Koopman-type decompositions for dynamical systems depending on static or time-varying parameters. Our method simultaneously constructs an invariant subspace and a parametric family of projected Koopman operators acting on this subspace. We parametrize both the projected Koopman operator family and the dictionary that spans the invariant subspace by neural networks and jointly train them with trajectory data. We show theoretically the validity of our approach, and demonstrate via numerical experiments that it exhibits significant improvements over existing methods in solving prediction problems, especially those with large state or parameter dimensions, and those possessing strongly non-linear dynamics. Moreover, our method enables data-driven solution of optimal control problems involving non-linear dynamics, with interesting implications on controllability.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/37f5dd7a54e2c8a74a5cb30270698a6c98047bba" target='_blank'>Learning Parametric Koopman Decompositions for Prediction and Control</a></td>
          <td>
            Yue Guo, Milan Korda, I. Kevrekidis, Qianxiao Li
          </td>
          <td>2023-10-02</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>2</td>
          <td>76</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/0f4b3d72f08bfadc076617850cc8a5e9395738d6" target='_blank'>Koopman Operator Dynamical Models: Learning, Analysis and Control</a></td>
          <td>
            Petar Bevanda, Stefan Sosnowski, S. Hirche
          </td>
          <td>2021-02-04</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>87</td>
          <td>47</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="This work presents a data-driven framework for learning eigenfunctions of the Koopman operator geared toward prediction and control. The method relies on the richness of the spectrum of the Koopman operator in the transient, off-attractor, regime to construct a large number of eigenfunctions such that the state (or any other observable quantity of interest) is in the span of these eigenfunctions and hence predictable in a linear fashion. Once a predictor for the uncontrolled part of the system is obtained in this way, the incorporation of control is done through a multi-step prediction error minimization, carried out by a simple linear least-squares regression. The predictor so obtained is in the form of a linear controlled dynamical system and can be readily applied within the Koopman model predictive control framework of [11] to control nonlinear dynamical systems using linear model predictive control tools. The method is entirely data-driven and based purely on convex optimization, with no reliance on neural networks or other non-convex machine learning tools. The novel eigenfunction construction method is also analyzed theoretically, proving rigorously that the family of eigenfunctions obtained is rich enough to span the space of all continuous functions. In addition, the method is extended to construct generalized eigenfunctions that also give rise Koopman invariant subspaces and hence can be used for linear prediction. Detailed numerical examples demonstrate the approach, both for prediction and feedback control.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/97629699ff9e1e67b3f4f21cab64d42f3713bfa0" target='_blank'>Learning Koopman eigenfunctions for prediction and control: the transient case</a></td>
          <td>
            Milan Korda, I. Mezić
          </td>
          <td>2018-10-20</td>
          <td>arXiv: Optimization and Control</td>
          <td>7</td>
          <td>49</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="This article presents a novel data-driven framework for constructing eigenfunctions of the Koopman operator geared toward prediction and control. The method leverages the richness of the spectrum of the Koopman operator away from attractors to construct a set of eigenfunctions such that the state (or any other observable quantity of interest) is in the span of these eigenfunctions and hence predictable in a linear fashion. The eigenfunction construction is optimization-based with no dictionary selection required. Once a predictor for the uncontrolled part of the system is obtained in this way, the incorporation of control is done through a multistep prediction error minimization, carried out by a simple linear least-squares regression. The predictor so obtained is in the form of a linear controlled dynamical system and can be readily applied within the Koopman model predictive control (MPC) framework of (M. Korda and I. Mezić, 2018) to control nonlinear dynamical systems using linear MPC tools. The method is entirely data-driven and based predominantly on convex optimization. The novel eigenfunction construction method is also analyzed theoretically, proving rigorously that the family of eigenfunctions obtained is rich enough to span the space of all continuous functions. In addition, the method is extended to construct generalized eigenfunctions that also give rise Koopman invariant subspaces and hence can be used for linear prediction. Detailed numerical examples demonstrate the approach, both for prediction and feedback control.**Code for the numerical examples is available from https://homepages.laas.fr/mkorda/Eigfuns.zip.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/8f3d28be5557a1c87a80c3242d68bddb331b0cbc" target='_blank'>Optimal Construction of Koopman Eigenfunctions for Prediction and Control</a></td>
          <td>
            Milan Korda, I. Mezić
          </td>
          <td>2018-10-20</td>
          <td>IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control</td>
          <td>102</td>
          <td>49</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The Koopman operator is an useful analytical tool for studying dynamical systems -- both controlled and uncontrolled. For example, Koopman eigenfunctions can provide non-local stability information about the underlying dynamical system. Koopman representations of nonlinear systems are commonly calculated using machine learning methods, which seek to represent the Koopman eigenfunctions as a linear combinations of nonlinear state measurements. As such, it is important to understand whether, in principle, these eigenfunctions can be successfully obtained using machine learning and what eigenfunctions calculated in this way can tell us about the underlying system. To that end, this paper presents an analysis of continuity, stability and control limitations associated with Koopman eigenfunctions under minimal assumptions and provides a discussion that relates these properties to the ability to calculate Koopman representations with machine learning.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/719cbf3907aa6d2e8c2c623a9268d9ce86116223" target='_blank'>Learning Bounded Koopman Observables: Results on Stability, Continuity, and Controllability</a></td>
          <td>
            Craig Bakker, Thiagarajan Ramachandran, W. S. Rosenthal
          </td>
          <td>2020-04-30</td>
          <td>arXiv: Dynamical Systems</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>9</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="We exploit the key idea that nonlinear system identification is equivalent to linear identification of the so-called Koopman operator. Instead of considering nonlinear system identification in the state space, we obtain a novel linear identification technique by recasting the problem in the infinite-dimensional space of observables. This technique can be described in two main steps. In the first step, similar to a component of the Extended Dynamic Mode Decomposition algorithm, the data are lifted to the infinite-dimensional space and used for linear identification of the Koopman operator. In the second step, the obtained Koopman operator is “projected back” to the finite-dimensional state space, and identified to the nonlinear vector field through a linear least squares problem. The proposed technique is efficient to recover (polynomial) vector fields of different classes of systems, including unstable, chaotic, and open systems. In addition, it is robust to noise, well-suited to model low sampling rate datasets, and able to infer network topology and dynamics.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/4229412ee666f68522dd72ce5f956311a0de4f59" target='_blank'>Linear identification of nonlinear systems: A lifting technique based on the Koopman operator</a></td>
          <td>
            A. Mauroy, Jorge M. Gonçalves
          </td>
          <td>2016-05-14</td>
          <td>2016 IEEE 55th Conference on Decision and Control (CDC)</td>
          <td>98</td>
          <td>17</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>