---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2024-07-15 06:05:23 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Graph-Coupled Oscillator Networks</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="We propose the Kuramoto Graph Neural Network (KuramotoGNN), a novel class of continuous-depth graph neural networks (GNNs) that employs the Kuramoto model to mitigate the over-smoothing phenomenon, in which node features in GNNs become indistinguishable as the number of layers increases. The Kuramoto model captures the synchronization behavior of non-linear coupled oscillators. Under the view of coupled oscillators, we first show the connection between Kuramoto model and basic GNN and then over-smoothing phenomenon in GNNs can be interpreted as phase synchronization in Kuramoto model. The KuramotoGNN replaces this phase synchronization with frequency synchronization to prevent the node features from converging into each other while allowing the system to reach a stable synchronized state. We experimentally verify the advantages of the KuramotoGNN over the baseline GNNs and existing methods in reducing over-smoothing on various graph deep learning benchmark tasks.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/4eaf18f05ffc165ce6a0c4c44ac123af52fd523c" target='_blank'>From Coupled Oscillators to Graph Neural Networks: Reducing Over-smoothing via a Kuramoto Model-based Approach</a></td>
          <td>
            Tuan Nguyen, Tan M. Nguyen, Hirotada Honda, Takashi Sano, Vinh Nguyen, Shugo Nakamura
          </td>
          <td>2023-11-06</td>
          <td>ArXiv, DBLP</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>1</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="We study the ability of neural networks to calculate feedback control signals that steer trajectories of continuous time non-linear dynamical systems on graphs, which we represent with neural ordinary differential equations (neural ODEs). To do so, we present a neural-ODE control (NODEC) framework and find that it can learn feedback control signals that drive graph dynamical systems into desired target states. While we use loss functions that do not constrain the control energy, our results show, in accordance with related work, that NODEC produces low energy control signals. Finally, we evaluate the performance and versatility of NODEC against well-known feedback controllers and deep reinforcement learning. We use NODEC to generate feedback controls for systems of more than one thousand coupled, non-linear ODEs that represent epidemic processes and coupled oscillators.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/9c3b4e4df0d27f65b09fcb86bef1a04fc759fa97" target='_blank'>Neural ordinary differential equation control of dynamics on graphs</a></td>
          <td>
            Thomas Asikis, L. Böttcher, Nino Antulov-Fantulin
          </td>
          <td>2020-06-17</td>
          <td>Physical Review Research</td>
          <td>29</td>
          <td>17</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="We introduce the framework of continuous--depth graph neural networks (GNNs). Graph neural ordinary differential equations (GDEs) are formalized as the counterpart to GNNs where the input-output relationship is determined by a continuum of GNN layers, blending discrete topological structures and differential equations. The proposed framework is shown to be compatible with various static and autoregressive GNN models. Results prove general effectiveness of GDEs: in static settings they offer computational advantages by incorporating numerical methods in their forward pass; in dynamic settings, on the other hand, they are shown to improve performance by exploiting the geometry of the underlying dynamics.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/8540780e6b9422f7a1264edb70f39d3ff79bb8c1" target='_blank'>Graph Neural Ordinary Differential Equations</a></td>
          <td>
            Michael Poli, Stefano Massaroli, Junyoung Park, A. Yamashita, H. Asama, Jinkyoo Park
          </td>
          <td>2019-11-18</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>121</td>
          <td>39</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Recent works have shown that physics-inspired architectures allow the training of deep graph neural networks (GNNs) without oversmoothing. The role of these physics is unclear, however, with successful examples of both reversible (e.g., Hamiltonian) and irreversible (e.g., diffusion) phenomena producing comparable results despite diametrically opposed mechanisms, and further complications arising due to empirical departures from mathematical theory. This work presents a series of novel GNN architectures based upon structure-preserving bracket-based dynamical systems, which are provably guaranteed to either conserve energy or generate positive dissipation with increasing depth. It is shown that the theoretically principled framework employed here allows for inherently explainable constructions, which contextualize departures from theory in current architectures and better elucidate the roles of reversibility and irreversibility in network performance.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/71395e0be94802971611ec88130af780d4ba90d0" target='_blank'>Reversible and irreversible bracket-based dynamics for deep graph neural networks</a></td>
          <td>
            A. Gruber, Kookjin Lee, N. Trask
          </td>
          <td>2023-05-24</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>6</td>
          <td>11</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Continuous graph neural networks (CGNNs) have garnered significant attention due to their ability to generalize existing discrete graph neural networks (GNNs) by introducing continuous dynamics. They typically draw inspiration from diffusion-based methods to introduce a novel propagation scheme, which is analyzed using ordinary differential equations (ODE). However, the implementation of CGNNs requires significant computational power, making them challenging to deploy on battery-powered devices. Inspired by recent spiking neural networks (SNNs), which emulate a biological inference process and provide an energy-efficient neural architecture, we incorporate the SNNs with CGNNs in a unified framework, named Continuous Spiking Graph Neural Networks (COS-GNN). We employ SNNs for graph node representation at each time step, which are further integrated into the ODE process along with time. To enhance information preservation and mitigate information loss in SNNs, we introduce the high-order structure of COS-GNN, which utilizes the second-order ODE for spiking representation and continuous propagation. Moreover, we provide the theoretical proof that COS-GNN effectively mitigates the issues of exploding and vanishing gradients, enabling us to capture long-range dependencies between nodes. Experimental results on graph-based learning tasks demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed COS-GNN over competitive baselines.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/cb2a45084f0c7bdc38271e94205603d1237945d8" target='_blank'>Continuous Spiking Graph Neural Networks</a></td>
          <td>
            Nan Yin, Mengzhu Wang, Li Shen, Hitesh Laxmichand Patel, Baopu Li, Bin Gu, Huan Xiong
          </td>
          <td>2024-04-02</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>2</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Graph neural networks are increasingly becoming the go-to approach in various fields such as computer vision, computational biology and chemistry, where data are naturally explained by graphs. However, unlike traditional convolutional neural networks, deep graph networks do not necessarily yield better performance than shallow graph networks. This behavior usually stems from the over-smoothing phenomenon. In this work, we propose a family of architectures to control this behavior by design. Our networks are motivated by numerical methods for solving Partial Differential Equations (PDEs) on manifolds, and as such, their behavior can be explained by similar analysis. Moreover, as we demonstrate using an extensive set of experiments, our PDE-motivated networks can generalize and be effective for various types of problems from different fields. Our architectures obtain better or on par with the current state-of-the-art results for problems that are typically approached using different architectures.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/54ff6c9ad037792e938e05985720d313512539b7" target='_blank'>PDE-GCN: Novel Architectures for Graph Neural Networks Motivated by Partial Differential Equations</a></td>
          <td>
            Moshe Eliasof, E. Haber, Eran Treister
          </td>
          <td>2021-08-04</td>
          <td>ArXiv, DBLP</td>
          <td>96</td>
          <td>45</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) have established themselves as the preferred methodology in a multitude of domains, ranging from computer vision to computational biology, especially in contexts where data inherently conform to graph structures. While many existing methods have endeavored to model GNNs using various techniques, a prevalent challenge they grapple with is the issue of over-smoothing. This paper presents new Graph Neural Network models that incorporate two first-order Partial Differential Equations (PDEs). These models do not increase complexity but effectively mitigate the over-smoothing problem. Our experimental findings highlight the capacity of our new PDE model to achieve comparable results with higher-order PDE models and fix the over-smoothing problem up to 64 layers. These results underscore the adaptability and versatility of GNNs, indicating that unconventional approaches can yield outcomes on par with established techniques.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/893093c71f2ae257120ae6789b3f86dc0dfeeaa1" target='_blank'>First-order PDES for Graph Neural Networks: Advection And Burgers Equation Models</a></td>
          <td>
            Yifan Qu, O. Krzysik, H. Sterck, Omer Ege Kara
          </td>
          <td>2024-04-03</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>25</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Deep Graph Networks (DGNs) currently dominate the research landscape of learning from graphs, due to their efficiency and ability to implement an adaptive message-passing scheme between the nodes. However, DGNs are typically limited in their ability to propagate and preserve long-term dependencies between nodes, i.e., they suffer from the over-squashing phenomena. This reduces their effectiveness, since predictive problems may require to capture interactions at different, and possibly large, radii in order to be effectively solved. In this work, we present Anti-Symmetric Deep Graph Networks (A-DGNs), a framework for stable and non-dissipative DGN design, conceived through the lens of ordinary differential equations. We give theoretical proof that our method is stable and non-dissipative, leading to two key results: long-range information between nodes is preserved, and no gradient vanishing or explosion occurs in training. We empirically validate the proposed approach on several graph benchmarks, showing that A-DGN yields to improved performance and enables to learn effectively even when dozens of layers are used.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e516225868c0247007f917213f5b23434299e5df" target='_blank'>Anti-Symmetric DGN: a stable architecture for Deep Graph Networks</a></td>
          <td>
            Alessio Gravina, D. Bacciu, C. Gallicchio
          </td>
          <td>2022-10-18</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>31</td>
          <td>26</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Graph Neural Networks (graph NNs) are a promising deep learning approach for analyzing graph-structured data. However, it is known that they do not improve (or sometimes worsen) their predictive performance as we pile up many layers and add non-lineality. To tackle this problem, we investigate the expressive power of graph NNs via their asymptotic behaviors as the layer size tends to infinity. Our strategy is to generalize the forward propagation of a Graph Convolutional Network (GCN), which is a popular graph NN variant, as a specific dynamical system. In the case of a GCN, we show that when its weights satisfy the conditions determined by the spectra of the (augmented) normalized Laplacian, its output exponentially approaches the set of signals that carry information of the connected components and node degrees only for distinguishing nodes. Our theory enables us to relate the expressive power of GCNs with the topological information of the underlying graphs inherent in the graph spectra. To demonstrate this, we characterize the asymptotic behavior of GCNs on the Erdős -- Renyi graph. We show that when the Erdős -- Renyi graph is sufficiently dense and large, a broad range of GCNs on it suffers from the "information loss" in the limit of infinite layers with high probability. Based on the theory, we provide a principled guideline for weight normalization of graph NNs. We experimentally confirm that the proposed weight scaling enhances the predictive performance of GCNs in real data. Code is available at this https URL.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/d06ddfa5377c80657f7085dd0ae6ee90675f6d88" target='_blank'>On Asymptotic Behaviors of Graph CNNs from Dynamical Systems Perspective</a></td>
          <td>
            Kenta Oono, Taiji Suzuki
          </td>
          <td>2019-05-27</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>24</td>
          <td>40</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Oversmoothing in Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) refers to the phenomenon where increasing network depth leads to homogeneous node representations. While previous work has established that Graph Convolutional Networks (GCNs) exponentially lose expressive power, it remains controversial whether the graph attention mechanism can mitigate oversmoothing. In this work, we provide a definitive answer to this question through a rigorous mathematical analysis, by viewing attention-based GNNs as nonlinear time-varying dynamical systems and incorporating tools and techniques from the theory of products of inhomogeneous matrices and the joint spectral radius. We establish that, contrary to popular belief, the graph attention mechanism cannot prevent oversmoothing and loses expressive power exponentially. The proposed framework extends the existing results on oversmoothing for symmetric GCNs to a significantly broader class of GNN models, including random walk GCNs, Graph Attention Networks (GATs) and (graph) transformers. In particular, our analysis accounts for asymmetric, state-dependent and time-varying aggregation operators and a wide range of common nonlinear activation functions, such as ReLU, LeakyReLU, GELU and SiLU.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/8b9f01585a679dffe92261ecdec56425db9ef97f" target='_blank'>Demystifying Oversmoothing in Attention-Based Graph Neural Networks</a></td>
          <td>
            Xinyi Wu, A. Ajorlou, Zihui Wu, A. Jadbabaie
          </td>
          <td>2023-05-25</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>10</td>
          <td>64</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>