---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2024-07-15 06:05:41 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Interaction Networks for Learning about Objects, Relations and Physics</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="Humans have a remarkable capacity to understand the physical dynamics of objects in their environment, flexibly capturing complex structures and interactions at multiple levels of detail. Inspired by this ability, we propose a hierarchical particle-based object representation that covers a wide variety of types of three-dimensional objects, including both arbitrary rigid geometrical shapes and deformable materials. We then describe the Hierarchical Relation Network (HRN), an end-to-end differentiable neural network based on hierarchical graph convolution, that learns to predict physical dynamics in this representation. Compared to other neural network baselines, the HRN accurately handles complex collisions and nonrigid deformations, generating plausible dynamics predictions at long time scales in novel settings, and scaling to large scene configurations. These results demonstrate an architecture with the potential to form the basis of next-generation physics predictors for use in computer vision, robotics, and quantitative cognitive science.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/d7c2c9c6900f8b637654d220be481eebf22187b1" target='_blank'>Flexible Neural Representation for Physics Prediction</a></td>
          <td>
            Damian Mrowca, Chengxu Zhuang, E. Wang, Nick Haber, Li Fei-Fei, J. Tenenbaum, Daniel Yamins
          </td>
          <td>2018-06-01</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>226</td>
          <td>130</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="We present the Neural Physics Engine (NPE), a framework for learning simulators of intuitive physics that naturally generalize across variable object count and different scene configurations. We propose a factorization of a physical scene into composable object-based representations and a neural network architecture whose compositional structure factorizes object dynamics into pairwise interactions. Like a symbolic physics engine, the NPE is endowed with generic notions of objects and their interactions; realized as a neural network, it can be trained via stochastic gradient descent to adapt to specific object properties and dynamics of different worlds. We evaluate the efficacy of our approach on simple rigid body dynamics in two-dimensional worlds. By comparing to less structured architectures, we show that the NPE's compositional representation of the structure in physical interactions improves its ability to predict movement, generalize across variable object count and different scene configurations, and infer latent properties of objects such as mass.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/a1786540a4e15f0757e1b84a02f98ed436a969e0" target='_blank'>A Compositional Object-Based Approach to Learning Physical Dynamics</a></td>
          <td>
            Michael Chang, T. Ullman, A. Torralba, J. Tenenbaum
          </td>
          <td>2016-11-04</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>415</td>
          <td>127</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="We introduce an approach for imposing physically motivated inductive biases on graph networks to learn interpretable representations and improved zero-shot generalization. Our experiments show that our graph network models, which implement this inductive bias, can learn message representations equivalent to the true force vector when trained on n-body gravitational and spring-like simulations. We use symbolic regression to fit explicit algebraic equations to our trained model's message function and recover the symbolic form of Newton's law of gravitation without prior knowledge. We also show that our model generalizes better at inference time to systems with more bodies than had been experienced during training. Our approach is extensible, in principle, to any unknown interaction law learned by a graph network, and offers a valuable technique for interpreting and inferring explicit causal theories about the world from implicit knowledge captured by deep learning.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/a6aad9ccdcb7674a3b7ab710f0a80d205834f847" target='_blank'>Learning Symbolic Physics with Graph Networks</a></td>
          <td>
            M. Cranmer, Rui Xu, P. Battaglia, S. Ho
          </td>
          <td>2019-09-12</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>77</td>
          <td>68</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Understanding and interacting with everyday physical scenes requires rich knowledge about the structure of the world, represented either implicitly in a value or policy function, or explicitly in a transition model. Here we introduce a new class of learnable models--based on graph networks--which implement an inductive bias for object- and relation-centric representations of complex, dynamical systems. Our results show that as a forward model, our approach supports accurate predictions from real and simulated data, and surprisingly strong and efficient generalization, across eight distinct physical systems which we varied parametrically and structurally. We also found that our inference model can perform system identification. Our models are also differentiable, and support online planning via gradient-based trajectory optimization, as well as offline policy optimization. Our framework offers new opportunities for harnessing and exploiting rich knowledge about the world, and takes a key step toward building machines with more human-like representations of the world.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/43879cf527f4918955fd55128baa6745174d8555" target='_blank'>Graph networks as learnable physics engines for inference and control</a></td>
          <td>
            Alvaro Sanchez-Gonzalez, N. Heess, J. T. Springenberg, J. Merel, Martin A. Riedmiller, R. Hadsell, P. Battaglia
          </td>
          <td>2018-06-04</td>
          <td>MAG, ArXiv, DBLP</td>
          <td>548</td>
          <td>62</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Learning system dynamics directly from observations is a promising direction in machine learning due to its potential to significantly enhance our ability to understand physical systems. However, the dynamics of many real-world systems are challenging to learn due to the presence of nonlinear potentials and a number of interactions that scales quadratically with the number of particles N, as in the case of the N-body problem. In this work we introduce an approach that transforms a fully-connected interaction graph into a hierarchical one which reduces the number of edges to O(N). This results in a linear time and space complexity while the pre-computation of the hierarchical graph requires O(N log (N)) time and O(N) space. Using our approach, we are able to train models on much larger particle counts, even on a single GPU. We evaluate how the phase space position accuracy and energy conservation depend on the number of simulated particles. Our approach retains high accuracy and efficiency even on large-scale gravitational N-body simulations which are impossible to run on a single machine if a fully-connected graph is used. Similar results are also observed when simulating Coulomb interactions. Furthermore, we make several important observations regarding the performance of this new hierarchical model, including: i) its accuracy tends to improve with the number of particles in the simulation and ii) its generalisation to unseen particle counts is also much better than for models that use all O(N^2) interactions.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/56f6708f22cbedcc1c600d78408bfbb46669d483" target='_blank'>Scalable Graph Networks for Particle Simulations</a></td>
          <td>
            Karolis Martinkus, Aurélien Lucchi, Nathanael Perraudin
          </td>
          <td>2020-10-14</td>
          <td>MAG, ArXiv, DBLP</td>
          <td>10</td>
          <td>39</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="We introduce the Continuum Physical Dataset (ContPhy), a novel benchmark for assessing machine physical commonsense. ContPhy complements existing physical reasoning benchmarks by encompassing the inference of diverse physical properties, such as mass and density, across various scenarios and predicting corresponding dynamics. We evaluated a range of AI models and found that they still struggle to achieve satisfactory performance on ContPhy, which shows that the current AI models still lack physical commonsense for the continuum, especially soft-bodies, and illustrates the value of the proposed dataset. We also introduce an oracle model (ContPRO) that marries the particle-based physical dynamic models with the recent large language models, which enjoy the advantages of both models, precise dynamic predictions, and interpretable reasoning. ContPhy aims to spur progress in perception and reasoning within diverse physical settings, narrowing the divide between human and machine intelligence in understanding the physical world. Project page: https://physical-reasoning-project.github.io.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/637b28b5c8283b2118b7bc0aabae6f4795bbee67" target='_blank'>ContPhy: Continuum Physical Concept Learning and Reasoning from Videos</a></td>
          <td>
            Zhicheng Zheng, Xin Yan, Zhenfang Chen, Jingzhou Wang, Qin Zhi Eddie Lim, J. B. Tenenbaum, Chuang Gan
          </td>
          <td>2024-02-09</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>17</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Here we present a machine learning framework and model implementation that can learn to simulate a wide variety of challenging physical domains, involving fluids, rigid solids, and deformable materials interacting with one another. Our framework---which we term "Graph Network-based Simulators" (GNS)---represents the state of a physical system with particles, expressed as nodes in a graph, and computes dynamics via learned message-passing. Our results show that our model can generalize from single-timestep predictions with thousands of particles during training, to different initial conditions, thousands of timesteps, and at least an order of magnitude more particles at test time. Our model was robust to hyperparameter choices across various evaluation metrics: the main determinants of long-term performance were the number of message-passing steps, and mitigating the accumulation of error by corrupting the training data with noise. Our GNS framework advances the state-of-the-art in learned physical simulation, and holds promise for solving a wide range of complex forward and inverse problems.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c529f5b08675f787cdcc094ee495239592339f82" target='_blank'>Learning to Simulate Complex Physics with Graph Networks</a></td>
          <td>
            Alvaro Sanchez-Gonzalez, Jonathan Godwin, T. Pfaff, Rex Ying, J. Leskovec, P. Battaglia
          </td>
          <td>2020-02-21</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>845</td>
          <td>134</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Despite the success of neural networks at solving concrete physics problems, their use as a general-purpose tool for scientific discovery is still in its infancy. Here, we approach this problem by modeling a neural network architecture after the human physical reasoning process, which has similarities to representation learning. This allows us to make progress towards the long-term goal of machine-assisted scientific discovery from experimental data without making prior assumptions about the system. We apply this method to toy examples and show that the network finds the physically relevant parameters, exploits conservation laws to make predictions, and can help to gain conceptual insights, e.g., Copernicus' conclusion that the solar system is heliocentric.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/7b2e20a3cdf96fc0bcddf6bd6576e5d5e09f17ec" target='_blank'>Discovering physical concepts with neural networks</a></td>
          <td>
            Raban Iten, Tony Metger, H. Wilming, L. D. Rio, R. Renner
          </td>
          <td>2018-07-27</td>
          <td>Physical review letters</td>
          <td>355</td>
          <td>69</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Recently, graph neural networks have been gaining a lot of attention to simulate dynamical systems due to their inductive nature leading to zero-shot generalizability. Similarly, physics-informed inductive biases in deep-learning frameworks have been shown to give superior performance in learning the dynamics of physical systems. There is a growing volume of literature that attempts to combine these two approaches. Here, we evaluate the performance of thirteen different graph neural networks, namely, Hamiltonian and Lagrangian graph neural networks, graph neural ODE, and their variants with explicit constraints and different architectures. We briefly explain the theoretical formulation highlighting the similarities and differences in the inductive biases and graph architecture of these systems. We evaluate these models on spring, pendulum, gravitational, and 3D deformable solid systems to compare the performance in terms of rollout error, conserved quantities such as energy and momentum, and generalizability to unseen system sizes. Our study demonstrates that GNNs with additional inductive biases, such as explicit constraints and decoupling of kinetic and potential energies, exhibit significantly enhanced performance. Further, all the physics-informed GNNs exhibit zero-shot generalizability to system sizes an order of magnitude larger than the training system, thus providing a promising route to simulate large-scale realistic systems.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/d7952de05e25e90a08b79431116ca6d2ec85e710" target='_blank'>Unravelling the Performance of Physics-informed Graph Neural Networks for Dynamical Systems</a></td>
          <td>
            A. Thangamuthu, Gunjan Kumar, S. Bishnoi, Ravinder Bhattoo, N. Krishnan, Sayan Ranu
          </td>
          <td>2022-11-10</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>12</td>
          <td>21</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>