---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2024-07-15 06:05:22 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Beltrami Flow and Neural Diffusion on Graphs</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="We present Graph Neural Diffusion (GRAND) that approaches deep learning on graphs as a continuous diffusion process and treats Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) as discretisations of an underlying PDE. In our model, the layer structure and topology correspond to the discretisation choices of temporal and spatial operators. Our approach allows a principled development of a broad new class of GNNs that are able to address the common plights of graph learning models such as depth, oversmoothing, and bottlenecks. Key to the success of our models are stability with respect to perturbations in the data and this is addressed for both implicit and explicit discretisation schemes. We develop linear and nonlinear versions of GRAND, which achieve competitive results on many standard graph benchmarks.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/95eee51c1cb1771e96cd182f47c90a7877461530" target='_blank'>GRAND: Graph Neural Diffusion</a></td>
          <td>
            B. Chamberlain, J. Rowbottom, Maria I. Gorinova, Stefan Webb, Emanuele Rossi, M. Bronstein
          </td>
          <td>2021-06-21</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>199</td>
          <td>76</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="We propose two graph neural network layers for graphs with features in a Riemannian manifold. First, based on a manifold-valued graph diffusion equation, we construct a diffusion layer that can be applied to an arbitrary number of nodes and graph connectivity patterns. Second, we model a tangent multilayer perceptron by transferring ideas from the vector neuron framework to our general setting. Both layers are equivariant with respect to node permutations and isometries of the feature manifold. These properties have been shown to lead to a beneficial inductive bias in many deep learning tasks. Numerical examples on synthetic data as well as on triangle meshes of the right hippocampus to classify Alzheimer's disease demonstrate the very good performance of our layers.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/ed6e3428dea2bd0623d3f875deb7385f0b5f49d6" target='_blank'>Manifold GCN: Diffusion-based Convolutional Neural Network for Manifold-valued Graphs</a></td>
          <td>
            M. Hanik, Gabriele Steidl, C. V. Tycowicz
          </td>
          <td>2024-01-25</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>13</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Information over-squashing is a phenomenon of inefficient information propagation between distant nodes on networks. It is an important problem that is known to significantly impact the training of graph neural networks (GNNs), as the receptive field of a node grows exponentially. To mitigate this problem, a preprocessing procedure known as rewiring is often applied to the input network. In this paper, we investigate the use of discrete analogues of classical geometric notions of curvature to model information flow on networks and rewire them. We show that these classical notions achieve state-of-the-art performance in GNN training accuracy on a variety of real-world network datasets. Moreover, compared to the current state-of-the-art, these classical notions exhibit a clear advantage in computational runtime by several orders of magnitude.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/f299132e9393e19a909a7f2aa89075f2261bcd84" target='_blank'>Rewiring Networks for Graph Neural Network Training Using Discrete Geometry</a></td>
          <td>
            Jakub Bober, Anthea Monod, Emil Saucan, K. Webster
          </td>
          <td>2022-07-16</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>10</td>
          <td>19</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Neural diffusion on graphs is a novel class of graph neural networks that has attracted increasing attention recently. The capability of graph neural partial differential equations (PDEs) in addressing common hurdles of graph neural networks (GNNs), such as the problems of over-smoothing and bottlenecks, has been investigated but not their robustness to adversarial attacks. In this work, we explore the robustness properties of graph neural PDEs. We empirically demonstrate that graph neural PDEs are intrinsically more robust against topology perturbation as compared to other GNNs. We provide insights into this phenomenon by exploiting the stability of the heat semigroup under graph topology perturbations. We discuss various graph diffusion operators and relate them to existing graph neural PDEs. Furthermore, we propose a general graph neural PDE framework based on which a new class of robust GNNs can be defined. We verify that the new model achieves comparable state-of-the-art performance on several benchmark datasets.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/489da8995c34704bb285d902d73c938c7bc4dd4e" target='_blank'>On the Robustness of Graph Neural Diffusion to Topology Perturbations</a></td>
          <td>
            Yang Song, Qiyu Kang, Sijie Wang, Zhao Kai, Wee Peng Tay
          </td>
          <td>2022-09-16</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>23</td>
          <td>30</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="A prominent paradigm for graph neural networks is based on the message-passing framework. In this framework, information communication is realized only between neighboring nodes. The challenge of approaches that use this paradigm is to ensure efficient and accurate long-distance communication between nodes, as deep convolutional networks are prone to oversmoothing. In this paper, we present a novel method based on time derivative graph diffusion (TIDE) to overcome these structural limitations of the message-passing framework. Our approach allows for optimizing the spatial extent of diffusion across various tasks and network channels, thus enabling medium and long-distance communication efficiently. Furthermore, we show that our architecture design also enables local message-passing and thus inherits from the capabilities of local message-passing approaches. We show that on both widely used graph benchmarks and synthetic mesh and graph datasets, the proposed framework outperforms state-of-the-art methods by a significant margin">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/96d2ac139c1d305d597fb6533db893f2231fecc6" target='_blank'>TIDE: Time Derivative Diffusion for Deep Learning on Graphs</a></td>
          <td>
            Maximilian Krahn, M. Behmanesh, M. Ovsjanikov
          </td>
          <td>2022-12-05</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>7</td>
          <td>43</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="This paper builds on the connection between graph neural networks and traditional dynamical systems. We propose continuous graph neural networks (CGNN), which generalise existing graph neural networks with discrete dynamics in that they can be viewed as a specific discretisation scheme. The key idea is how to characterise the continuous dynamics of node representations, i.e. the derivatives of node representations, w.r.t. time. Inspired by existing diffusion-based methods on graphs (e.g. PageRank and epidemic models on social networks), we define the derivatives as a combination of the current node representations, the representations of neighbors, and the initial values of the nodes. We propose and analyse two possible dynamics on graphs---including each dimension of node representations (a.k.a. the feature channel) change independently or interact with each other---both with theoretical justification. The proposed continuous graph neural networks are robust to over-smoothing and hence allow us to build deeper networks, which in turn are able to capture the long-range dependencies between nodes. Experimental results on the task of node classification demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed approach over competitive baselines.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/903d62dccc969f5e6642d89fc746b94de7e8c1af" target='_blank'>Continuous Graph Neural Networks</a></td>
          <td>
            Louis-Pascal Xhonneux, Meng Qu, Jian Tang
          </td>
          <td>2019-12-02</td>
          <td>MAG, ArXiv, DBLP</td>
          <td>119</td>
          <td>40</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Neural message passing is a basic feature extraction unit for graph-structured data considering neighboring node features in network propagation from one layer to the next. We model such process by an interacting particle system with attractive and repulsive forces and the Allen-Cahn force arising in the modeling of phase transition. The dynamics of the system is a reaction-diffusion process which can separate particles without blowing up. This induces an Allen-Cahn message passing (ACMP) for graph neural networks where the numerical iteration for the particle system solution constitutes the message passing propagation. ACMP which has a simple implementation with a neural ODE solver can propel the network depth up to one hundred of layers with theoretically proven strictly positive lower bound of the Dirichlet energy. It thus provides a deep model of GNNs circumventing the common GNN problem of oversmoothing. GNNs with ACMP achieve state of the art performance for real-world node classification tasks on both homophilic and heterophilic datasets.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/fea03f338db94581753f9588bd07937996aee63d" target='_blank'>ACMP: Allen-Cahn Message Passing with Attractive and Repulsive Forces for Graph Neural Networks</a></td>
          <td>
            Yuelin Wang, Kai Yi, Xinliang Liu, Yu Guang Wang, Shi Jin
          </td>
          <td>2022-06-11</td>
          <td>ArXiv, DBLP</td>
          <td>24</td>
          <td>15</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Graph neural networks (GNNs) are widely used in domains like social networks and biological systems. However, the locality assumption of GNNs, which limits information exchange to neighboring nodes, hampers their ability to capture long-range dependencies and global patterns in graphs. To address this, we propose a new inductive bias based on variational analysis, drawing inspiration from the Brachistochrone problem. Our framework establishes a mapping between discrete GNN models and continuous diffusion functionals. This enables the design of application-specific objective functions in the continuous domain and the construction of discrete deep models with mathematical guarantees. To tackle over-smoothing in GNNs, we analyze the existing layer-by-layer graph embedding models and identify that they are equivalent to l2-norm integral functionals of graph gradients, which cause over-smoothing. Similar to edge-preserving filters in image denoising, we introduce total variation (TV) to align the graph diffusion pattern with global community topologies. Additionally, we devise a selective mechanism to address the trade-off between model depth and over-smoothing, which can be easily integrated into existing GNNs. Furthermore, we propose a novel generative adversarial network (GAN) that predicts spreading flows in graphs through a neural transport equation. To mitigate vanishing flows, we customize the objective function to minimize transportation within each community while maximizing inter-community flows. Our GNN models achieve state-of-the-art (SOTA) performance on popular graph learning benchmarks such as Cora, Citeseer, and Pubmed.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/827643cf750b714a74ed70ac949178b7de5a30a9" target='_blank'>Re-Think and Re-Design Graph Neural Networks in Spaces of Continuous Graph Diffusion Functionals</a></td>
          <td>
            Tingting Dan, Jiaqi Ding, Ziquan Wei, S. Kovalsky, Minjeong Kim, Won Hwa Kim, Guorong Wu
          </td>
          <td>2023-07-01</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>2</td>
          <td>39</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="While Hyperbolic Graph Neural Network (HGNN) has recently emerged as a powerful tool dealing with hierarchical graph data, the limitations of scalability and efficiency hinder itself from generalizing to deep models. In this paper, by envisioning depth as a continuous-time embedding evolution, we decouple the HGNN and reframe the information propagation as a partial differential equation, letting node-wise attention undertake the role of diffusivity within the Hyperbolic Neural PDE (HPDE). By introducing theoretical principles \textit{e.g.,} field and flow, gradient, divergence, and diffusivity on a non-Euclidean manifold for HPDE integration, we discuss both implicit and explicit discretization schemes to formulate numerical HPDE solvers. Further, we propose the Hyperbolic Graph Diffusion Equation (HGDE) -- a flexible vector flow function that can be integrated to obtain expressive hyperbolic node embeddings. By analyzing potential energy decay of embeddings, we demonstrate that HGDE is capable of modeling both low- and high-order proximity with the benefit of local-global diffusivity functions. Experiments on node classification and link prediction and image-text classification tasks verify the superiority of the proposed method, which consistently outperforms various competitive models by a significant margin.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/d4909dc88aef0484f13041239c784ab5413b8e83" target='_blank'>Continuous Geometry-Aware Graph Diffusion via Hyperbolic Neural PDE</a></td>
          <td>
            Jiaxu Liu, Xinping Yi, Sihao Wu, Xiangyu Yin, Tianle Zhang, Xiaowei Huang, Shi Jin
          </td>
          <td>2024-06-03</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>2</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>