---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2024-07-15 06:05:07 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Sparse identification of nonlinear dynamics for model predictive control in the low-data limit</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="In this work we analyze the effectiveness of the Sparse Identification of Nonlinear Dynamics (SINDy) technique on three benchmark datasets for nonlinear identification, to provide a better understanding of its suitability when tackling real dynamical systems. While SINDy can be an appealing strategy for pursuing physics-based learning, our analysis highlights difficulties in dealing with unobserved states and non-smooth dynamics. Due to the ubiquity of these features in real systems in general, and control applications in particular, we complement our analysis with hands-on approaches to tackle these issues in order to exploit SINDy also in these challenging contexts.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/99877062e70fae24c531d58aa880fa443ec10c9b" target='_blank'>SINDy vs Hard Nonlinearities and Hidden Dynamics: a Benchmarking Study</a></td>
          <td>
            Aurelio Raffa Ugolini, Valentina Breschi, Andrea Manzoni, M. Tanelli
          </td>
          <td>2024-03-01</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>1</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Data-driven modeling frameworks that adopt sparse regression techniques, such as sparse identification of nonlinear dynamics (SINDy) and its modifications, are developed to resolve difficulties in extracting underlying dynamics from experimental data. In contrast to neural-network-based methods, these methods are designed to obtain white-box analytical models. In this work, we incorporate the concept of SINDy and knowledge in the field of classical mechanics to identify interpretable and sparse expressions of total energy and the Lagrangian that shelters the hidden dynamics. Moreover, our method (hereafter referred as Lagrangian-SINDy) is developed to use knowledge of simple systems that form the system being analyzed to ensure the likelihood of correct results and to improve the learning pace. Lagrangian-SINDy is highly accurate in discovering interpretable dynamics via energy-related physical quantities. Its performance is validated with three popular multi-DOF nonlinear dynamical systems, namely the spherical pendulum, double pendulum and cart-pendulum system. Comparisons with other SINDy-based methods are made and Lagrangian-SINDy is found to provide the most compact analytical models.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/7d7e107bcb40ed9596642ff12cc60f33f3eb47e2" target='_blank'>Discovering Interpretable Dynamics by Sparsity Promotion on Energy and the Lagrangian</a></td>
          <td>
            H. Chu, M. Hayashibe
          </td>
          <td>2020-01-31</td>
          <td>IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters</td>
          <td>23</td>
          <td>23</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Accurately modelling the nonlinear dynamics of a system from measurement data is a challenging yet vital topic. The sparse identification of nonlinear dynamics (SINDy) algorithm is one approach to discover dynamical systems models from data. Although extensions have been developed to identify implicit dynamics, or dynamics described by rational functions, these extensions are extremely sensitive to noise. In this work, we develop SINDy-PI (parallel, implicit), a robust variant of the SINDy algorithm to identify implicit dynamics and rational nonlinearities. The SINDy-PI framework includes multiple optimization algorithms and a principled approach to model selection. We demonstrate the ability of this algorithm to learn implicit ordinary and partial differential equations and conservation laws from limited and noisy data. In particular, we show that the proposed approach is several orders of magnitude more noise robust than previous approaches, and may be used to identify a class of ODE and PDE dynamics that were previously unattainable with SINDy, including for the double pendulum dynamics and simplified model for the Belousov–Zhabotinsky (BZ) reaction.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/4971f9abd024e40fbbdff2e9492745b68a6bca01" target='_blank'>SINDy-PI: a robust algorithm for parallel implicit sparse identification of nonlinear dynamics</a></td>
          <td>
            Kadierdan Kaheman, J. Kutz, S. Brunton
          </td>
          <td>2020-04-05</td>
          <td>Proceedings. Mathematical, Physical, and Engineering Sciences</td>
          <td>183</td>
          <td>63</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Modern societies have an abundance of data yet good system models are rare. Unfortunately, many of the current system identification and machine learning techniques fail to generalize outside of the training set, producing models that violate basic physical laws. This work proposes a novel method for the Sparse Identification of Nonlinear Dynamics with Side Information (SINDy-SI). SINDy-SI is an iterative method that uses Sum-of-Squares (SOS) programming to learn optimally fitted models while guaranteeing that the learned model satisfies side information, such as symmetry's and physical laws. Guided by the principle of Occam's razor, that the simplest or most regularized best fitted model is typically the superior choice, during each iteration SINDy-SI prunes the basis functions associated with small coefficients, yielding a sparse dynamical model upon termination. Through several numerical experiments we will show how the combination of side information constraints and sparse polynomial representation cultivates dynamical models that obey known physical laws while displaying impressive generalized performance beyond the training set.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/13a6b8f2d60ef8006dfe6e6bed42df96f773a323" target='_blank'>Sparse Identification of Nonlinear Dynamics with Side Information (SINDy-SI)</a></td>
          <td>
            Gabriel F. Machado, Morgan Jones
          </td>
          <td>2023-10-06</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>1</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The sparse identification of nonlinear dynamics (SINDy) has been established as an effective technique to produce interpretable models of dynamical systems from time-resolved state data via sparse regression. However, to model parameterized systems, SINDy requires data from transient trajectories for various parameter values over the range of interest, which are typically difficult to acquire experimentally. In this work, we extend SINDy to be able to leverage data on fixed points and/or limit cycles to reduce the number of transient trajectories needed for successful system identification. To achieve this, we incorporate the data on these attractors at various parameter values as constraints in the optimization problem. First, we show that enforcing these as hard constraints leads to an ill-conditioned regression problem due to the large number of constraints. Instead, we implement soft constraints by modifying the cost function to be minimized. This leads to the formulation of a multi-objective sparse regression problem where we simultaneously seek to minimize the error of the fit to the transients trajectories and to the data on attractors, while penalizing the number of terms in the model. Our extension, demonstrated on several numerical examples, is more robust to noisy measurements and requires substantially less training data than the original SINDy method to correctly identify a parameterized dynamical system.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/0c03c126b4d641a81099470f03a7d5215a2a6820" target='_blank'>Multi-objective SINDy for parameterized model discovery from single transient trajectory data</a></td>
          <td>
            Javier A. Lemus, Benjamin Herrmann
          </td>
          <td>2024-05-14</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>0</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Significance Understanding dynamic constraints and balances in nature has facilitated rapid development of knowledge and enabled technology, including aircraft, combustion engines, satellites, and electrical power. This work develops a novel framework to discover governing equations underlying a dynamical system simply from data measurements, leveraging advances in sparsity techniques and machine learning. The resulting models are parsimonious, balancing model complexity with descriptive ability while avoiding overfitting. There are many critical data-driven problems, such as understanding cognition from neural recordings, inferring climate patterns, determining stability of financial markets, predicting and suppressing the spread of disease, and controlling turbulence for greener transportation and energy. With abundant data and elusive laws, data-driven discovery of dynamics will continue to play an important role in these efforts. Extracting governing equations from data is a central challenge in many diverse areas of science and engineering. Data are abundant whereas models often remain elusive, as in climate science, neuroscience, ecology, finance, and epidemiology, to name only a few examples. In this work, we combine sparsity-promoting techniques and machine learning with nonlinear dynamical systems to discover governing equations from noisy measurement data. The only assumption about the structure of the model is that there are only a few important terms that govern the dynamics, so that the equations are sparse in the space of possible functions; this assumption holds for many physical systems in an appropriate basis. In particular, we use sparse regression to determine the fewest terms in the dynamic governing equations required to accurately represent the data. This results in parsimonious models that balance accuracy with model complexity to avoid overfitting. We demonstrate the algorithm on a wide range of problems, from simple canonical systems, including linear and nonlinear oscillators and the chaotic Lorenz system, to the fluid vortex shedding behind an obstacle. The fluid example illustrates the ability of this method to discover the underlying dynamics of a system that took experts in the community nearly 30 years to resolve. We also show that this method generalizes to parameterized systems and systems that are time-varying or have external forcing.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/5d150cec2775f9bc863760448f14104cc8f42368" target='_blank'>Discovering governing equations from data by sparse identification of nonlinear dynamical systems</a></td>
          <td>
            S. Brunton, J. Proctor, J. Kutz
          </td>
          <td>2015-09-11</td>
          <td>Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences</td>
          <td>3108</td>
          <td>63</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Automated data-driven modeling, the process of directly discovering the governing equations of a system from data, is increasingly being used across the scientific community. PySINDy is a Python package that provides tools for applying the sparse identification of nonlinear dynamics (SINDy) approach to data-driven model discovery. In this major update to PySINDy, we implement several advanced features that enable the discovery of more general differential equations from noisy and limited data. The library of candidate terms is extended for the identification of actuated systems, partial differential equations (PDEs), and implicit differential equations. Robust formulations, including the integral form of SINDy and ensembling techniques, are also implemented to improve performance for real-world data. Finally, we provide a range of new optimization algorithms, including several sparse regression techniques and algorithms to enforce and promote inequality constraints and stability. Together, these updates enable entirely new SINDy model discovery capabilities that have not been reported in the literature, such as constrained PDE identification and ensembling with different sparse regression optimizers.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/433ba35ced5d3f47fa2688c81a60363a74193449" target='_blank'>PySINDy: A comprehensive Python package for robust sparse system identification</a></td>
          <td>
            A. Kaptanoglu, Brian M. de Silva, Urban Fasel, Kadierdan Kaheman, Jared L. Callaham, Charles B. Delahunt, Kathleen P. Champion, Jean-Christophe Loiseau, J. Kutz, S. Brunton
          </td>
          <td>2021-11-12</td>
          <td>J. Open Source Softw.</td>
          <td>105</td>
          <td>63</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="We develop a principled mathematical framework for controlling nonlinear, networked dynamical systems. Our method integrates dimensionality reduction, bifurcation theory, and emerging model discovery tools to find low-dimensional subspaces where feed-forward control can be used to manipulate a system to a desired outcome. The method leverages the fact that many high-dimensional networked systems have many fixed points, allowing for the computation of control signals that will move the system between any pair of fixed points. The sparse identification of nonlinear dynamics (SINDy) algorithm is used to fit a nonlinear dynamical system to the evolution on the dominant, low-rank subspace. This then allows us to use bifurcation theory to find collections of constant control signals that will produce the desired objective path for a prescribed outcome. Specifically, we can destabilize a given fixed point while making the target fixed point an attractor. The discovered control signals can be easily projected back to the original high-dimensional state and control space. We illustrate our nonlinear control procedure on established bistable, low-dimensional biological systems, showing how control signals are found that generate switches between the fixed points. We then demonstrate our control procedure for high-dimensional systems on random high-dimensional networks and Hopfield memory networks.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/4b849d45b437a09d1ea5321a304c5bc411bf3de4" target='_blank'>Nonlinear Control of Networked Dynamical Systems</a></td>
          <td>
            Megan Morrison, Nathan Kutz
          </td>
          <td>2020-06-09</td>
          <td>IEEE Transactions on Network Science and Engineering</td>
          <td>9</td>
          <td>5</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/899995e30820d657b2e2feb791025cd6b2027e22" target='_blank'>Discovering sparse interpretable dynamics from partial observations</a></td>
          <td>
            Peter Y. Lu, Joan Ariño Bernad, M. Soljačić
          </td>
          <td>2021-07-22</td>
          <td>Communications Physics</td>
          <td>17</td>
          <td>94</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>