---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2024-07-15 06:05:47 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Learning to Simulate Complex Physics with Graph Networks</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="We develop a PyTorch-based Graph Network Simulator (GNS) that learns physics and predicts the flow behavior of particulate and fluid systems. GNS discretizes the domain with nodes representing a collection of material points and the links connecting the nodes representing the local interaction between particles or clusters of particles. The GNS learns the interaction laws through message passing on the graph. GNS has three components: (a) Encoder, which embeds particle information to a latent graph, the edges are learned functions; (b) Processor, which allows data propagation and computes the nodal interactions across steps; and (c) Decoder, which extracts the relevant dynamics (e.g., particle acceleration) from the graph. We introduce physics-inspired simple inductive biases, such as an inertial frame that allows learning algorithms to prioritize one solution (constant gravitational acceleration) over another, reducing learning time. The GNS implementation uses semi-implicit Euler integration to update the next state based on the predicted accelerations. GNS trained on trajectory data is generalizable to predict particle kinematics in complex boundary conditions not seen during training. The trained model accurately predicts within a 5\% error of its associated material point method (MPM) simulation. The predictions are 5,000x faster than traditional MPM simulations (2.5 hours for MPM simulations versus 20 s for GNS simulation of granular flow). GNS surrogates are popular for solving optimization, control, critical-region prediction for in situ viz, and inverse-type problems. The GNS code is available under the open-source MIT license at https://github.com/geoelements/gns.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/8d0ad8be491a5dad5af49f7c7f6c4dde40ee3f25" target='_blank'>GNS: A generalizable Graph Neural Network-based simulator for particulate and fluid modeling</a></td>
          <td>
            Krishna Kumar, J. Vantassel
          </td>
          <td>2022-11-18</td>
          <td>J. Open Source Softw.</td>
          <td>7</td>
          <td>9</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Simulation of the dynamics of physical systems is essential to the development of both science and engineering. Recently there is an increasing interest in learning to simulate the dynamics of physical systems using neural networks. However, existing approaches fail to generalize to physical substances not in the training set, such as liquids with different viscosities or elastomers with different elasticities. Here we present a machine learning method embedded with physical priors and material parameters, which we term as"Graph-based Physics Engine"(GPE), to efficiently model the physical dynamics of different substances in a wide variety of scenarios. We demonstrate that GPE can generalize to materials with different properties not seen in the training set and perform well from single-step predictions to multi-step roll-out simulations. In addition, introducing the law of momentum conservation in the model significantly improves the efficiency and stability of learning, allowing convergence to better models with fewer training steps.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/68c9deb6d474b34c5cf947b30c519640b0d4fd45" target='_blank'>Learning to Simulate Unseen Physical Systems with Graph Neural Networks</a></td>
          <td>
            Ce Yang, Weihao Gao, Di Wu, Chong Wang
          </td>
          <td>2022-01-28</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>2</td>
          <td>15</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Iterative solvers are widely used to accurately simulate physical systems. These solvers require initial guesses to generate a sequence of improving approximate solutions. In this contribution, we introduce a novel method to accelerate iterative solvers for physical systems with graph networks (GNs) by predicting the initial guesses to reduce the number of iterations. Unlike existing methods that aim to learn physical systems in an end-to-end manner, our approach guarantees long-term stability and therefore leads to more accurate solutions. Furthermore, our method improves the run time performance of traditional iterative solvers. To explore our method we make use of position-based dynamics (PBD) as a common solver for physical systems and evaluate it by simulating the dynamics of elastic rods. Our approach is able to generalize across different initial conditions, discretizations, and realistic material properties. Finally, we demonstrate that our method also performs well when taking discontinuous effects into account such as collisions between individual rods. A video showing dynamic results of our graph learning assisted simulations of elastic rods can be found on the project website available at this http URL .">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/0bf48ff5241fcf7116db676d87d98188dfcac175" target='_blank'>Accurately Solving Physical Systems with Graph Learning</a></td>
          <td>
            Han Shao, Tassilo Kugelstadt, Wojciech Palubicki, Jan Bender, S. Pirk, D. Michels
          </td>
          <td>2020-06-06</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>5</td>
          <td>27</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Simulating complex dynamics like fluids with traditional simulators is computationally challenging. Deep learning models have been proposed as an efficient alternative, extending or replacing parts of traditional simulators. We investigate graph neural networks (GNNs) for learning fluid dynamics and find that their generalization capability is more limited than previous works would suggest. We also challenge the current practice of adding random noise to the network inputs in order to improve its generalization capability and simulation stability. We find that inserting the real data distribution, e.g. by unrolling multiple simulation steps, improves accuracy and that hiding all domain-specific features from the learning model improves generalization. Our results indicate that learning models, such as GNNs, fail to learn the exact underlying dynamics unless the training set is devoid of any other problem-specific correlations that could be used as shortcuts.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/218168b5d4ad7c61f5db656339e3b499fec02cf1" target='_blank'>Simulating Liquids with Graph Networks</a></td>
          <td>
            Jonathan Klimesch, Philipp Holl, Nils Thuerey
          </td>
          <td>2022-03-14</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>8</td>
          <td>7</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Learning system dynamics directly from observations is a promising direction in machine learning due to its potential to significantly enhance our ability to understand physical systems. However, the dynamics of many real-world systems are challenging to learn due to the presence of nonlinear potentials and a number of interactions that scales quadratically with the number of particles N, as in the case of the N-body problem. In this work we introduce an approach that transforms a fully-connected interaction graph into a hierarchical one which reduces the number of edges to O(N). This results in a linear time and space complexity while the pre-computation of the hierarchical graph requires O(N log (N)) time and O(N) space. Using our approach, we are able to train models on much larger particle counts, even on a single GPU. We evaluate how the phase space position accuracy and energy conservation depend on the number of simulated particles. Our approach retains high accuracy and efficiency even on large-scale gravitational N-body simulations which are impossible to run on a single machine if a fully-connected graph is used. Similar results are also observed when simulating Coulomb interactions. Furthermore, we make several important observations regarding the performance of this new hierarchical model, including: i) its accuracy tends to improve with the number of particles in the simulation and ii) its generalisation to unseen particle counts is also much better than for models that use all O(N^2) interactions.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/56f6708f22cbedcc1c600d78408bfbb46669d483" target='_blank'>Scalable Graph Networks for Particle Simulations</a></td>
          <td>
            Karolis Martinkus, Aurélien Lucchi, Nathanael Perraudin
          </td>
          <td>2020-10-14</td>
          <td>MAG, ArXiv, DBLP</td>
          <td>10</td>
          <td>39</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Mesh-based simulations are central to modeling complex physical systems in many disciplines across science and engineering. Mesh representations support powerful numerical integration methods and their resolution can be adapted to strike favorable trade-offs between accuracy and efficiency. However, high-dimensional scientific simulations are very expensive to run, and solvers and parameters must often be tuned individually to each system studied. Here we introduce MeshGraphNets, a framework for learning mesh-based simulations using graph neural networks. Our model can be trained to pass messages on a mesh graph and to adapt the mesh discretization during forward simulation. Our results show it can accurately predict the dynamics of a wide range of physical systems, including aerodynamics, structural mechanics, and cloth. The model's adaptivity supports learning resolution-independent dynamics and can scale to more complex state spaces at test time. Our method is also highly efficient, running 1-2 orders of magnitude faster than the simulation on which it is trained. Our approach broadens the range of problems on which neural network simulators can operate and promises to improve the efficiency of complex, scientific modeling tasks.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/9e20f6874feaaf7c9994f9875b1d9cab17a2fd59" target='_blank'>Learning Mesh-Based Simulation with Graph Networks</a></td>
          <td>
            T. Pfaff, Meire Fortunato, Alvaro Sanchez-Gonzalez, P. Battaglia
          </td>
          <td>2020-10-07</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>555</td>
          <td>46</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Recently, graph neural networks have been gaining a lot of attention to simulate dynamical systems due to their inductive nature leading to zero-shot generalizability. Similarly, physics-informed inductive biases in deep-learning frameworks have been shown to give superior performance in learning the dynamics of physical systems. There is a growing volume of literature that attempts to combine these two approaches. Here, we evaluate the performance of thirteen different graph neural networks, namely, Hamiltonian and Lagrangian graph neural networks, graph neural ODE, and their variants with explicit constraints and different architectures. We briefly explain the theoretical formulation highlighting the similarities and differences in the inductive biases and graph architecture of these systems. We evaluate these models on spring, pendulum, gravitational, and 3D deformable solid systems to compare the performance in terms of rollout error, conserved quantities such as energy and momentum, and generalizability to unseen system sizes. Our study demonstrates that GNNs with additional inductive biases, such as explicit constraints and decoupling of kinetic and potential energies, exhibit significantly enhanced performance. Further, all the physics-informed GNNs exhibit zero-shot generalizability to system sizes an order of magnitude larger than the training system, thus providing a promising route to simulate large-scale realistic systems.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/d7952de05e25e90a08b79431116ca6d2ec85e710" target='_blank'>Unravelling the Performance of Physics-informed Graph Neural Networks for Dynamical Systems</a></td>
          <td>
            A. Thangamuthu, Gunjan Kumar, S. Bishnoi, Ravinder Bhattoo, N. Krishnan, Sayan Ranu
          </td>
          <td>2022-11-10</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>12</td>
          <td>21</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="In recent years, there has been a growing interest in using machine learning to overcome the high cost of numerical simulation, with some learned models achieving impressive speed-ups over classical solvers whilst maintaining accuracy. However, these methods are usually tested at low-resolution settings, and it remains to be seen whether they can scale to the costly high-resolution simulations that we ultimately want to tackle. In this work, we propose two complementary approaches to improve the framework from MeshGraphNets, which demonstrated accurate predictions in a broad range of physical systems. MeshGraphNets relies on a message passing graph neural network to propagate information, and this structure becomes a limiting factor for high-resolution simulations, as equally distant points in space become further apart in graph space. First, we demonstrate that it is possible to learn accurate surrogate dynamics of a high-resolution system on a much coarser mesh, both removing the message passing bottleneck and improving performance; and second, we introduce a hierarchical approach (MultiScale MeshGraphNets) which passes messages on two different resolutions (fine and coarse), significantly improving the accuracy of MeshGraphNets while requiring less computational resources.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b6841ed68e0e6d9cabeb28e9dfca22ffa853f30f" target='_blank'>MultiScale MeshGraphNets</a></td>
          <td>
            Meire Fortunato, Tobias Pfaff, Peter Wirnsberger, A. Pritzel, Peter W. Battaglia
          </td>
          <td>2022-10-02</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>45</td>
          <td>27</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Continuum mechanics simulators, numerically solving one or more partial differential equations, are essential tools in many areas of science and engineering, but their performance often limits application in practice. Recent modern machine learning approaches have demonstrated their ability to accelerate spatio-temporal predictions, although, with only moderate accuracy in comparison. Here we introduce MultiScaleGNN, a novel multi-scale graph neural network model for learning to infer unsteady continuum mechanics. MultiScaleGNN represents the physical domain as an unstructured set of nodes, and it constructs one or more graphs, each of them encoding different scales of spatial resolution. Successive learnt message passing between these graphs improves the ability of GNNs to capture and forecast the system state in problems encompassing a range of length scales. Using graph representations, MultiScaleGNN can impose periodic boundary conditions as an inductive bias on the edges in the graphs, and achieve independence to the nodes' positions. We demonstrate this method on advection problems and incompressible fluid dynamics. Our results show that the proposed model can generalise from uniform advection fields to high-gradient fields on complex domains at test time and infer long-term Navier-Stokes solutions within a range of Reynolds numbers. Simulations obtained with MultiScaleGNN are between two and four orders of magnitude faster than the ones on which it was trained.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/bc9df947dee9aa269ef9d5fcd06980598293aea5" target='_blank'>Simulating Continuum Mechanics with Multi-Scale Graph Neural Networks</a></td>
          <td>
            Mario Lino, C. Cantwell, A. Bharath, Stathi Fotiadis
          </td>
          <td>2021-06-09</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>37</td>
          <td>23</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="We introduce an approach for imposing physically informed inductive biases in learned simulation models. We combine graph networks with a differentiable ordinary differential equation integrator as a mechanism for predicting future states, and a Hamiltonian as an internal representation. We find that our approach outperforms baselines without these biases in terms of predictive accuracy, energy accuracy, and zero-shot generalization to time-step sizes and integrator orders not experienced during training. This advances the state-of-the-art of learned simulation, and in principle is applicable beyond physical domains.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/57784e5db3504d549d16382de8f7f4ad222b3d71" target='_blank'>Hamiltonian Graph Networks with ODE Integrators</a></td>
          <td>
            Alvaro Sanchez-Gonzalez, V. Bapst, Kyle Cranmer, P. Battaglia
          </td>
          <td>2019-09-27</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>160</td>
          <td>46</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>