---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2026-04-13 06:56:26 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Graph State-Space Models and Latent Relational Inference</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="Multi-variate time series forecasting is an important problem with a wide range of applications. Recent works model the relations between time-series as graphs and have shown that propagating information over the relation graph can improve time series forecasting. However, in many cases, relational information is not available or is noisy and reliable. Moreover, most works ignore the underlying uncertainty of time-series both for structure learning and deriving the forecasts resulting in the structure not capturing the uncertainty resulting in forecast distributions with poor uncertainty estimates. We tackle this challenge and introduce STOIC, that leverages stochastic correlations between time-series to learn underlying structure between time-series and to provide well-calibrated and accurate forecasts. Over a wide-range of benchmark datasets STOIC provides around 16% more accurate and 14% better-calibrated forecasts. STOIC also shows better adaptation to noise in data during inference and captures important and useful relational information in various benchmarks.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/7d4b412399f89c9cd66cffc4ab811b74172dcc63" target='_blank'>Learning Graph Structures and Uncertainty for Accurate and Calibrated Time-series Forecasting</a></td>
          <td>
            Harshavardhan Kamarthi, Lingkai Kong, Alexander Rodriguez, Chao Zhang, B. Prakash
          </td>
          <td>2024-07-02</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>17</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Outstanding achievements of graph neural networks for spatiotemporal time series analysis show that relational constraints introduce an effective inductive bias into neural forecasting architectures. Often, however, the relational information characterizing the underlying data-generating process is unavailable and the practitioner is left with the problem of inferring from data which relational graph to use in the subsequent processing stages. We propose novel, principled - yet practical - probabilistic score-based methods that learn the relational dependencies as distributions over graphs while maximizing end-to-end the performance at task. The proposed graph learning framework is based on consolidated variance reduction techniques for Monte Carlo score-based gradient estimation, is theoretically grounded, and, as we show, effective in practice. In this paper, we focus on the time series forecasting problem and show that, by tailoring the gradient estimators to the graph learning problem, we are able to achieve state-of-the-art performance while controlling the sparsity of the learned graph and the computational scalability. We empirically assess the effectiveness of the proposed method on synthetic and real-world benchmarks, showing that the proposed solution can be used as a stand-alone graph identification procedure as well as a graph learning component of an end-to-end forecasting architecture.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/0d01d21137a5af9f04e4b16a55a0f732cb8a540b" target='_blank'>Sparse Graph Learning from Spatiotemporal Time Series</a></td>
          <td>
            Andrea Cini, Daniele Zambon, C. Alippi
          </td>
          <td>2022-05-26</td>
          <td>J. Mach. Learn. Res.</td>
          <td>30</td>
          <td>55</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="We introduce a new version of deep state-space models (DSSMs) that combines a recurrent neural network with a state-space framework to forecast time series data. The model estimates the observed series as functions of latent variables that evolve non-linearly through time. Due to the complexity and non-linearity inherent in DSSMs, previous works on DSSMs typically produced latent variables that are very difficult to interpret. Our paper focus on producing interpretable latent parameters with two key modifications. First, we simplify the predictive decoder by restricting the response variables to be a linear transformation of the latent variables plus some noise. Second, we utilize shrinkage priors on the latent variables to reduce redundancy and improve robustness. These changes make the latent variables much easier to understand and allow us to interpret the resulting latent variables as random effects in a linear mixed model. We show through two public benchmark datasets the resulting model improves forecasting performances.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b5d92a67cb7adb40d982df2f6fb6c8669d34604b" target='_blank'>Interpretable Latent Variables in Deep State Space Models</a></td>
          <td>
            Haoxuan Wu, David S. Matteson, M. Wells
          </td>
          <td>2022-03-03</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>41</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Time series with long-term structure arise in a variety of contexts and capturing this temporal structure is a critical challenge in time series analysis for both inference and forecasting settings. Traditionally, state space models have been successful in providing uncertainty estimates of trajectories in the latent space. More recently, deep learning, attention-based approaches have achieved state of the art performance for sequence modeling, though often require large amounts of data and parameters to do so. We propose Stanza, a nonlinear, non-stationary state space model as an intermediate approach to fill the gap between traditional models and modern deep learning approaches for complex time series. Stanza strikes a balance between competitive forecasting accuracy and probabilistic, interpretable inference for highly structured time series. In particular, Stanza achieves forecasting accuracy competitive with deep LSTMs on real-world datasets, especially for multi-step ahead forecasting.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/9c619e58d073772ff298228d47afcab625c7f37a" target='_blank'>Stanza: A Nonlinear State Space Model for Probabilistic Inference in Non-Stationary Time Series</a></td>
          <td>
            Anna K. Yanchenko, S. Mukherjee
          </td>
          <td>2020-06-11</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>6</td>
          <td>31</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The recent advance in graph neural networks (GNNs) has inspired a few studies to leverage the dependencies of variables for time series prediction. Despite the promising results, existing GNN-based models cannot capture the global dynamic relations between variables owing to the inherent limitation of their graph learning module. Besides, multi-scale temporal information is usually ignored or simply concatenated in prior methods, resulting in inaccurate predictions. To overcome these limitations, we present CGMF, a Continuous Graph learning method for Multivariate time series Forecasting (CGMF). Our CGMF consists of a continuous graph module incorporating differential equations to capture the long-range intra- and inter-relations of the temporal embedding sequence. We also introduce a controlled differential equation-based fusion mechanism that efficiently exploits multi-scale representations to form continuous evolutional dynamics and learn rich relations and patterns shared across different scales. Comprehensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of our method for a variety of datasets.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/cb0ae363a3997d8cceb90da7980196e90b0349b7" target='_blank'>Learning Dynamic Temporal Relations with Continuous Graph for Multivariate Time Series Forecasting (Student Abstract)</a></td>
          <td>
            Zhiyuan Wang, Fan Zhou, Goce Trajcevski, Kunpeng Zhang, Ting Zhong
          </td>
          <td>2023-06-26</td>
          <td>DBLP</td>
          <td>5</td>
          <td>52</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Deep learning has achieved strong performance in Time Series Forecasting (TSF). However, we identify a critical representation paradox, termed Latent Chaos: models with accurate predictions often learn latent representations that are temporally disordered and lack continuity. We attribute this phenomenon to the dominant observation-space forecasting paradigm. Most TSF models minimize point-wise errors on noisy and partially observed data, which encourages shortcut solutions instead of the recovery of underlying system dynamics. To address this issue, we propose Latent Time Series Forecasting (LatentTSF), a novel paradigm that shifts TSF from observation regression to latent state prediction. Specifically, LatentTSF employs an AutoEncoder to project observations at each time step into a higher-dimensional latent state space. This expanded representation aims to capture underlying system variables and impose a smoother temporal structure. Forecasting is then performed entirely in the latent space, allowing the model to focus on learning structured temporal dynamics. Theoretical analysis demonstrates that our proposed latent objectives implicitly maximize mutual information between predicted latent states and ground-truth states and observations. Extensive experiments on widely-used benchmarks confirm that LatentTSF effectively mitigates latent chaos, achieving superior performance. Our code is available in https://github.com/Muyiiiii/LatentTSF.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/14d9a2e298fce2ed77dbb3ede5a8ee2831c43d39" target='_blank'>From Observations to States: Latent Time Series Forecasting</a></td>
          <td>
            Jie Yang, Yifan Hu, Yuante Li, Kexin Zhang, Kaize Ding, Philip S. Yu
          </td>
          <td>2026-01-30</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>5</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="We study a recent class of models which uses graph neural networks (GNNs) to improve forecasting in multivariate time series. The core assumption behind these models is that there is a latent graph between the time series (nodes) that governs the evolution of the multivariate time series. By parameterizing a graph in a differentiable way, the models aim to improve forecasting quality. We compare four recent models of this class on the forecasting task. Further, we perform ablations to study their behavior under changing conditions, e.g., when disabling the graph-learning modules and providing the ground-truth relations instead. Based on our findings, we propose novel ways of combining the existing architectures.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/0b85207ac9a9271850fe8c44f5e8c84d00ff3409" target='_blank'>A Study of Joint Graph Inference and Forecasting</a></td>
          <td>
            Daniel Zügner, François-Xavier Aubet, Victor Garcia Satorras, Tim Januschowski, Stephan Günnemann, Jan Gasthaus
          </td>
          <td>2021-09-10</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>12</td>
          <td>52</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/07bba481ad5abc8e93a372fddeaa37cd626fd064" target='_blank'>Modelling Relational Time Series using Gaussian Embeddings</a></td>
          <td>
            Ludovic Dos Santos, A. Ziat, Ludovic Denoyer, Benjamin Piwowarski, P. Gallinari
          </td>
          <td>2016-11-03</td>
          <td></td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>52</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>