---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2024-07-15 06:05:33 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Learning rigid dynamics with face interaction graph networks</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="Recently, many mesh-based graph neural network (GNN) models have been proposed for modeling complex high-dimensional physical systems. Remarkable achievements have been made in significantly reducing the solving time compared to traditional numerical solvers. These methods are typically designed to i) reduce the computational cost in solving physical dynamics and/or ii) propose techniques to enhance the solution accuracy in fluid and rigid body dynamics. However, it remains under-explored whether they are effective in addressing the challenges of flexible body dynamics, where instantaneous collisions occur within a very short timeframe. In this paper, we present Hierarchical Contact Mesh Transformer (HCMT), which uses hierarchical mesh structures and can learn long-range dependencies (occurred by collisions) among spatially distant positions of a body -- two close positions in a higher-level mesh correspond to two distant positions in a lower-level mesh. HCMT enables long-range interactions, and the hierarchical mesh structure quickly propagates collision effects to faraway positions. To this end, it consists of a contact mesh Transformer and a hierarchical mesh Transformer (CMT and HMT, respectively). Lastly, we propose a flexible body dynamics dataset, consisting of trajectories that reflect experimental settings frequently used in the display industry for product designs. We also compare the performance of several baselines using well-known benchmark datasets. Our results show that HCMT provides significant performance improvements over existing methods. Our code is available at https://github.com/yuyudeep/hcmt.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/6c7dbbb11ba59c09bf73869f9fa5f73fd5d17e72" target='_blank'>Learning Flexible Body Collision Dynamics with Hierarchical Contact Mesh Transformer</a></td>
          <td>
            Youn-Yeol Yu, Jeongwhan Choi, Woojin Cho, Kookjin Lee, Nayong Kim, Kiseok Chang, ChangSeung Woo, Ilho Kim, Seok-Woo Lee, Joon Young Yang, S. Yoon, Noseong Park
          </td>
          <td>2023-12-19</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>8</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Mesh-based simulations are central to modeling complex physical systems in many disciplines across science and engineering. Mesh representations support powerful numerical integration methods and their resolution can be adapted to strike favorable trade-offs between accuracy and efficiency. However, high-dimensional scientific simulations are very expensive to run, and solvers and parameters must often be tuned individually to each system studied. Here we introduce MeshGraphNets, a framework for learning mesh-based simulations using graph neural networks. Our model can be trained to pass messages on a mesh graph and to adapt the mesh discretization during forward simulation. Our results show it can accurately predict the dynamics of a wide range of physical systems, including aerodynamics, structural mechanics, and cloth. The model's adaptivity supports learning resolution-independent dynamics and can scale to more complex state spaces at test time. Our method is also highly efficient, running 1-2 orders of magnitude faster than the simulation on which it is trained. Our approach broadens the range of problems on which neural network simulators can operate and promises to improve the efficiency of complex, scientific modeling tasks.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/9e20f6874feaaf7c9994f9875b1d9cab17a2fd59" target='_blank'>Learning Mesh-Based Simulation with Graph Networks</a></td>
          <td>
            T. Pfaff, Meire Fortunato, Alvaro Sanchez-Gonzalez, P. Battaglia
          </td>
          <td>2020-10-07</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>555</td>
          <td>46</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Simulating large scenes with many rigid objects is crucial for a variety of applications, such as robotics, engineering, film and video games. Rigid interactions are notoriously hard to model: small changes to the initial state or the simulation parameters can lead to large changes in the final state. Recently, learned simulators based on graph networks (GNNs) were developed as an alternative to hand-designed simulators like MuJoCo and PyBullet. They are able to accurately capture dynamics of real objects directly from real-world observations. However, current state-of-the-art learned simulators operate on meshes and scale poorly to scenes with many objects or detailed shapes. Here we present SDF-Sim, the first learned rigid-body simulator designed for scale. We use learned signed-distance functions (SDFs) to represent the object shapes and to speed up distance computation. We design the simulator to leverage SDFs and avoid the fundamental bottleneck of the previous simulators associated with collision detection. For the first time in literature, we demonstrate that we can scale the GNN-based simulators to scenes with hundreds of objects and up to 1.1 million nodes, where mesh-based approaches run out of memory. Finally, we show that SDF-Sim can be applied to real world scenes by extracting SDFs from multi-view images.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/ce2992a1d7c057b170909cc2f7db442f0d32f5dc" target='_blank'>Learning rigid-body simulators over implicit shapes for large-scale scenes and vision</a></td>
          <td>
            Yulia Rubanova, Tatiana Lopez-Guevara, Kelsey R. Allen, William F. Whitney, Kimberly L. Stachenfeld, Tobias Pfaff
          </td>
          <td>2024-05-22</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>7</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) have become a prevailing tool for learning physical dynamics. However, they still encounter several challenges: 1) Physical laws abide by symmetry, which is a vital inductive bias accounting for model generalization and should be incorporated into the model design. Existing simulators either consider insufficient symmetry, or enforce excessive equivariance in practice when symmetry is partially broken by gravity. 2) Objects in the physical world possess diverse shapes, sizes, and properties, which should be appropriately processed by the model. To tackle these difficulties, we propose a novel backbone, Subequivariant Graph Neural Network, which 1) relaxes equivariance to subequivariance by considering external fields like gravity, where the universal approximation ability holds theoretically; 2) introduces a new subequivariant object-aware message passing for learning physical interactions between multiple objects of various shapes in the particle-based representation; 3) operates in a hierarchical fashion, allowing for modeling long-range and complex interactions. Our model achieves on average over 3% enhancement in contact prediction accuracy across 8 scenarios on Physion and 2X lower rollout MSE on RigidFall compared with state-of-the-art GNN simulators, while exhibiting strong generalization and data efficiency.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/91090894c7fda3a19000f7224349e9168f9d7d42" target='_blank'>Learning Physical Dynamics with Subequivariant Graph Neural Networks</a></td>
          <td>
            Jiaqi Han, Wenbing Huang, Hengbo Ma, Jiachen Li, J. Tenenbaum, Chuang Gan
          </td>
          <td>2022-10-13</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>20</td>
          <td>124</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="We present a robust learning algorithm to detect and handle collisions in 3D deforming meshes. Our collision detector is represented as a bilevel deep autoencoder with an attention mechanism that identifies colliding mesh sub-parts. We use a numerical optimization algorithm to resolve penetrations guided by the network. Our learned collision handler can resolve collisions for unseen, high-dimensional meshes with thousands of vertices. To obtain stable network performance in such large and unseen spaces, we progressively insert new collision data based on the errors in network inferences. We automatically label these data using an analytical collision detector and progressively fine-tune our detection networks. We evaluate our method for collision handling of complex, 3D meshes coming from several datasets with different shapes and topologies, including datasets corresponding to dressed and undressed human poses, cloth simulations, and human hand poses acquired using multiview capture systems. Our approach outperforms supervised learning methods and achieves $93.8-98.1\%$ accuracy compared to the groundtruth by analytic methods. Compared to prior learning methods, our approach results in a $5.16\%-25.50\%$ lower false negative rate in terms of collision checking and a $9.65\%-58.91\%$ higher success rate in collision handling.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/2558e6159ac733bd36199a0a99e964193d59ac9b" target='_blank'>Active Learning of Neural Collision Handler for Complex 3D Mesh Deformations</a></td>
          <td>
            Qingyang Tan, Zherong Pan, Breannan Smith, Takaaki Shiratori, Dinesh Manocha
          </td>
          <td>2021-10-08</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>6</td>
          <td>95</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Here we present a machine learning framework and model implementation that can learn to simulate a wide variety of challenging physical domains, involving fluids, rigid solids, and deformable materials interacting with one another. Our framework---which we term "Graph Network-based Simulators" (GNS)---represents the state of a physical system with particles, expressed as nodes in a graph, and computes dynamics via learned message-passing. Our results show that our model can generalize from single-timestep predictions with thousands of particles during training, to different initial conditions, thousands of timesteps, and at least an order of magnitude more particles at test time. Our model was robust to hyperparameter choices across various evaluation metrics: the main determinants of long-term performance were the number of message-passing steps, and mitigating the accumulation of error by corrupting the training data with noise. Our GNS framework advances the state-of-the-art in learned physical simulation, and holds promise for solving a wide range of complex forward and inverse problems.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c529f5b08675f787cdcc094ee495239592339f82" target='_blank'>Learning to Simulate Complex Physics with Graph Networks</a></td>
          <td>
            Alvaro Sanchez-Gonzalez, Jonathan Godwin, T. Pfaff, Rex Ying, J. Leskovec, P. Battaglia
          </td>
          <td>2020-02-21</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>845</td>
          <td>134</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Deep learning-based cloth simulation approaches have potential in achieving real-time simulation of complex cloth by directly learning a mapping from control input to resulting cloth movement, bypassing the need for time-consuming dynamic solving and collision processing. Recent advancements have demonstrated the effectiveness of Graph Neural Networks (GNN) in learning cloth dynamics. However, existing GNN-based models have limitations in predicting scenarios involving complex cloth movement. To overcome this limitation, we propose a novel GNN-based model that incorporates several components, including RNN-based state encoding and physics-informed features. Our model significantly improves the accuracy of cloth dynamics prediction in various scenarios, including those with complex cloth movement driven by control handles. Furthermore, our model demonstrates generalization capabilities for cloth mesh topology and control handle configurations. We validate the effectiveness of our approach through ablation studies and comparisons with a baseline model.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/947d571f5f4bb080a6453a593595373aca73642f" target='_blank'>MeshGraphNetRP: Improving Generalization of GNN-based Cloth Simulation</a></td>
          <td>
            Emmanuel Ian Libao, Myeongjin Lee, Sumin Kim, Sung-Hee Lee
          </td>
          <td>2023-11-15</td>
          <td>Proceedings of the 16th ACM SIGGRAPH Conference on Motion, Interaction and Games</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>1</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="We present a novel mesh‐based learning approach (N‐Cloth) for plausible 3D cloth deformation prediction. Our approach is general and can handle cloth or obstacles represented by triangle meshes with arbitrary topologies. We use graph convolution to transform the cloth and object meshes into a latent space to reduce the non‐linearity in the mesh space. Our network can predict the target 3D cloth mesh deformation based on the initial state of the cloth mesh template and the target obstacle mesh. Our approach can handle complex cloth meshes with up to 100K triangles and scenes with various objects corresponding to SMPL humans, non‐SMPL humans or rigid bodies. In practice, our approach can be used to generate plausible cloth simulation at 30 – 45 fps on an NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3090 GPU. We highlight its benefits over prior learning‐based methods and physically‐based cloth simulators.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/654d109ce463e2e1d83187da22d12e7a184db508" target='_blank'>N‐Cloth: Predicting 3D Cloth Deformation with Mesh‐Based Networks</a></td>
          <td>
            Yudi Li, Min Tang, Yun-bo Yang, Zi Huang, Ruofeng Tong, Shuangcai Yang, Yao Li, Dinesh Manocha
          </td>
          <td>2021-12-13</td>
          <td>Computer Graphics Forum</td>
          <td>16</td>
          <td>95</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Physics-based simulation of mesh based domains remains a challenging task. State-of-the-art techniques can produce realistic results but require expert knowledge. A major bottleneck in many approaches is the step of integrating a potential energy in order to compute velocities or displacements. Recently, learning based method for physics-based simulation have sparked interest with graph based approaches being a promising research direction. One of the challenges for these methods is to generate models that are mesh independent and generalize to different material properties. Moreover, the model should also be able to react to unforeseen external forces like ubiquitous collisions. Our contribution is based on a simple observation: evaluating forces is computationally relatively cheap for traditional simulation methods and can be computed in parallel in contrast to their integration. If we learn how a system reacts to forces in general, irrespective of their origin, we can learn an integrator that can predict state changes due to the total forces with high generalization power. We effectively factor out the physical model behind resulting forces by relying on an opaque force module. We demonstrate that this idea leads to a learnable module that can be trained on basic internal forces of small mesh patches and generalizes to different mesh typologies, resolutions, material parameters and unseen forces like collisions at inference time. Our proposed paradigm is general and can be used to model a variety of physical phenomena. We focus our exposition on the detail enhancement of coarse clothing geometry which has many applications including computer games, virtual reality and virtual try-on.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/20c3503df4e7929dc25142ed2e45f0f759afeca7" target='_blank'>PhysGraph: Physics-Based Integration Using Graph Neural Networks</a></td>
          <td>
            Oshri Halimi, E.T Larionov, Zohar Barzelay, Philipp Herholz, Tuur Stuyck
          </td>
          <td>2023-01-27</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>12</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>