---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2024-07-15 06:05:38 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Constraint-based graph network simulator</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="We introduce an approach for imposing physically informed inductive biases in learned simulation models. We combine graph networks with a differentiable ordinary differential equation integrator as a mechanism for predicting future states, and a Hamiltonian as an internal representation. We find that our approach outperforms baselines without these biases in terms of predictive accuracy, energy accuracy, and zero-shot generalization to time-step sizes and integrator orders not experienced during training. This advances the state-of-the-art of learned simulation, and in principle is applicable beyond physical domains.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/57784e5db3504d549d16382de8f7f4ad222b3d71" target='_blank'>Hamiltonian Graph Networks with ODE Integrators</a></td>
          <td>
            Alvaro Sanchez-Gonzalez, V. Bapst, Kyle Cranmer, P. Battaglia
          </td>
          <td>2019-09-27</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>160</td>
          <td>46</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Iterative solvers are widely used to accurately simulate physical systems. These solvers require initial guesses to generate a sequence of improving approximate solutions. In this contribution, we introduce a novel method to accelerate iterative solvers for physical systems with graph networks (GNs) by predicting the initial guesses to reduce the number of iterations. Unlike existing methods that aim to learn physical systems in an end-to-end manner, our approach guarantees long-term stability and therefore leads to more accurate solutions. Furthermore, our method improves the run time performance of traditional iterative solvers. To explore our method we make use of position-based dynamics (PBD) as a common solver for physical systems and evaluate it by simulating the dynamics of elastic rods. Our approach is able to generalize across different initial conditions, discretizations, and realistic material properties. Finally, we demonstrate that our method also performs well when taking discontinuous effects into account such as collisions between individual rods. A video showing dynamic results of our graph learning assisted simulations of elastic rods can be found on the project website available at this http URL .">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/0bf48ff5241fcf7116db676d87d98188dfcac175" target='_blank'>Accurately Solving Physical Systems with Graph Learning</a></td>
          <td>
            Han Shao, Tassilo Kugelstadt, Wojciech Palubicki, Jan Bender, S. Pirk, D. Michels
          </td>
          <td>2020-06-06</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>5</td>
          <td>27</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Here we present a machine learning framework and model implementation that can learn to simulate a wide variety of challenging physical domains, involving fluids, rigid solids, and deformable materials interacting with one another. Our framework---which we term "Graph Network-based Simulators" (GNS)---represents the state of a physical system with particles, expressed as nodes in a graph, and computes dynamics via learned message-passing. Our results show that our model can generalize from single-timestep predictions with thousands of particles during training, to different initial conditions, thousands of timesteps, and at least an order of magnitude more particles at test time. Our model was robust to hyperparameter choices across various evaluation metrics: the main determinants of long-term performance were the number of message-passing steps, and mitigating the accumulation of error by corrupting the training data with noise. Our GNS framework advances the state-of-the-art in learned physical simulation, and holds promise for solving a wide range of complex forward and inverse problems.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c529f5b08675f787cdcc094ee495239592339f82" target='_blank'>Learning to Simulate Complex Physics with Graph Networks</a></td>
          <td>
            Alvaro Sanchez-Gonzalez, Jonathan Godwin, T. Pfaff, Rex Ying, J. Leskovec, P. Battaglia
          </td>
          <td>2020-02-21</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>845</td>
          <td>134</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The great learning ability of deep learning models facilitates us to comprehend the real physical world, making learning to simulate complicated particle systems a promising endeavour. However, the complex laws of the physical world pose significant challenges to the learning based simulations, such as the varying spatial dependencies between interacting particles and varying temporal dependencies between particle system states in different time stamps, which dominate particles' interacting behaviour and the physical systems' evolution patterns. Existing learning based simulation methods fail to fully account for the complexities, making them unable to yield satisfactory simulations. To better comprehend the complex physical laws, this paper proposes a novel learning based simulation model- Graph Networks with Spatial-Temporal neural Ordinary Equations (GNSTODE)- that characterizes the varying spatial and temporal dependencies in particle systems using a united end-to-end framework. Through training with real-world particle-particle interaction observations, GNSTODE is able to simulate any possible particle systems with high precisions. We empirically evaluate GNSTODE's simulation performance on two real-world particle systems, Gravity and Coulomb, with varying levels of spatial and temporal dependencies. The results show that the proposed GNSTODE yields significantly better simulations than state-of-the-art learning based simulation methods, which proves that GNSTODE can serve as an effective solution to particle simulations in real-world application.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b8faa6683b9bea99f87387a6434eb064996007b2" target='_blank'>Towards Complex Dynamic Physics System Simulation with Graph Neural ODEs</a></td>
          <td>
            Guangsi Shi, Daokun Zhang, Ming Jin, Shirui Pan
          </td>
          <td>2023-05-21</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>2</td>
          <td>18</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="We develop a PyTorch-based Graph Network Simulator (GNS) that learns physics and predicts the flow behavior of particulate and fluid systems. GNS discretizes the domain with nodes representing a collection of material points and the links connecting the nodes representing the local interaction between particles or clusters of particles. The GNS learns the interaction laws through message passing on the graph. GNS has three components: (a) Encoder, which embeds particle information to a latent graph, the edges are learned functions; (b) Processor, which allows data propagation and computes the nodal interactions across steps; and (c) Decoder, which extracts the relevant dynamics (e.g., particle acceleration) from the graph. We introduce physics-inspired simple inductive biases, such as an inertial frame that allows learning algorithms to prioritize one solution (constant gravitational acceleration) over another, reducing learning time. The GNS implementation uses semi-implicit Euler integration to update the next state based on the predicted accelerations. GNS trained on trajectory data is generalizable to predict particle kinematics in complex boundary conditions not seen during training. The trained model accurately predicts within a 5\% error of its associated material point method (MPM) simulation. The predictions are 5,000x faster than traditional MPM simulations (2.5 hours for MPM simulations versus 20 s for GNS simulation of granular flow). GNS surrogates are popular for solving optimization, control, critical-region prediction for in situ viz, and inverse-type problems. The GNS code is available under the open-source MIT license at https://github.com/geoelements/gns.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/8d0ad8be491a5dad5af49f7c7f6c4dde40ee3f25" target='_blank'>GNS: A generalizable Graph Neural Network-based simulator for particulate and fluid modeling</a></td>
          <td>
            Krishna Kumar, J. Vantassel
          </td>
          <td>2022-11-18</td>
          <td>J. Open Source Softw.</td>
          <td>7</td>
          <td>9</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Mesh-based simulations are central to modeling complex physical systems in many disciplines across science and engineering. Mesh representations support powerful numerical integration methods and their resolution can be adapted to strike favorable trade-offs between accuracy and efficiency. However, high-dimensional scientific simulations are very expensive to run, and solvers and parameters must often be tuned individually to each system studied. Here we introduce MeshGraphNets, a framework for learning mesh-based simulations using graph neural networks. Our model can be trained to pass messages on a mesh graph and to adapt the mesh discretization during forward simulation. Our results show it can accurately predict the dynamics of a wide range of physical systems, including aerodynamics, structural mechanics, and cloth. The model's adaptivity supports learning resolution-independent dynamics and can scale to more complex state spaces at test time. Our method is also highly efficient, running 1-2 orders of magnitude faster than the simulation on which it is trained. Our approach broadens the range of problems on which neural network simulators can operate and promises to improve the efficiency of complex, scientific modeling tasks.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/9e20f6874feaaf7c9994f9875b1d9cab17a2fd59" target='_blank'>Learning Mesh-Based Simulation with Graph Networks</a></td>
          <td>
            T. Pfaff, Meire Fortunato, Alvaro Sanchez-Gonzalez, P. Battaglia
          </td>
          <td>2020-10-07</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>555</td>
          <td>46</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Differentiable physics simulation is a powerful family of new techniques that applies gradient-based methods to learning and control of physical systems. It enables optimization for control, and can also be integrated into neural network frameworks for performing complex tasks. We believe that differentiable physics simulation should be a key component for neural networks to bridge the gap between training performance and the generality to previously unseen real-world inputs. However, realizing a practical differentiable simulation is still challenging because of its high dimensionality and fragmented computation flow. In this paper, we motivate the importance of differentiable physics simulation, describe its current challenges, introduce state-of-the-art approaches, and discuss potential improvements and future directions.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/543c6672b045081593aa27e045e853486e6c8967" target='_blank'>Differentiable Physics Simulation</a></td>
          <td>
            Junbang Liang, M. Lin
          </td>
          <td>2020-02-26</td>
          <td></td>
          <td>12</td>
          <td>78</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/dbc6f9d83c021e9dc3cc6803d25e7189f3acdf4d" target='_blank'>Towards complex dynamic physics system simulation with graph neural ordinary equations.</a></td>
          <td>
            Guangsi Shi, Daokun Zhang, Ming Jin, Shirui Pan, Phillp S. Yu
          </td>
          <td>2024-04-01</td>
          <td>Neural networks : the official journal of the International Neural Network Society</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>3</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Modeling complex physical dynamics is a fundamental task in science and engineering. Traditional physics-based models are sample efficient, and interpretable but often rely on rigid assumptions. Furthermore, direct numerical approximation is usually computationally intensive, requiring significant computational resources and expertise, and many real-world systems do not have fully-known governing laws. While deep learning (DL) provides novel alternatives for efficiently recognizing complex patterns and emulating nonlinear dynamics, its predictions do not necessarily obey the governing laws of physical systems, nor do they generalize well across different systems. Thus, the study of physics-guided DL emerged and has gained great progress. Physics-guided DL aims to take the best from both physics-based modeling and state-of-the-art DL models to better solve scientific problems. In this paper, we provide a structured overview of existing methodologies of integrating prior physical knowledge or physics-based modeling into DL, with a special emphasis on learning dynamical systems. We also discuss the fundamental challenges and emerging opportunities in the area.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/7ac3e74f927b01f2b54661b09d9014a4e3a77bf8" target='_blank'>Physics-Guided Deep Learning for Dynamical Systems: A survey</a></td>
          <td>
            Rui Wang
          </td>
          <td>2021-07-02</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>46</td>
          <td>10</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>