---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2024-07-15 06:04:49 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Taming Local Effects in Graph-based Spatiotemporal Forecasting</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="Graph-based deep learning methods have become popular tools to process collections of correlated time series. Differently from traditional multivariate forecasting methods, neural graph-based predictors take advantage of pairwise relationships by conditioning forecasts on a (possibly dynamic) graph spanning the time series collection. The conditioning can take the form of an architectural inductive bias on the neural forecasting architecture, resulting in a family of deep learning models called spatiotemporal graph neural networks. Such relational inductive biases enable the training of global forecasting models on large time-series collections, while at the same time localizing predictions w.r.t. each element in the set (i.e., graph nodes) by accounting for local correlations among them (i.e., graph edges). Indeed, recent theoretical and practical advances in graph neural networks and deep learning for time series forecasting make the adoption of such processing frameworks appealing and timely. However, most of the studies in the literature focus on proposing variations of existing neural architectures by taking advantage of modern deep learning practices, while foundational and methodological aspects have not been subject to systematic investigation. To fill the gap, this paper aims to introduce a comprehensive methodological framework that formalizes the forecasting problem and provides design principles for graph-based predictive models and methods to assess their performance. At the same time, together with an overview of the field, we provide design guidelines, recommendations, and best practices, as well as an in-depth discussion of open challenges and future research directions.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/ccea298edb788edf821aef58f0952c3e8debc25a" target='_blank'>Graph Deep Learning for Time Series Forecasting</a></td>
          <td>
            Andrea Cini, Ivan Marisca, Daniele Zambon, C. Alippi
          </td>
          <td>2023-10-24</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>4</td>
          <td>49</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Neural forecasting of spatiotemporal time series drives both research and industrial innovation in several relevant application domains. Graph neural networks (GNNs) are often the core component of the forecasting architecture. However, in most spatiotemporal GNNs, the computational complexity scales up to a quadratic factor with the length of the sequence times the number of links in the graph, hence hindering the application of these models to large graphs and long temporal sequences. While methods to improve scalability have been proposed in the context of static graphs, few research efforts have been devoted to the spatiotemporal case. To fill this gap, we propose a scalable architecture that exploits an efficient encoding of both temporal and spatial dynamics. In particular, we use a randomized recurrent neural network to embed the history of the input time series into high-dimensional state representations encompassing multi-scale temporal dynamics. Such representations are then propagated along the spatial dimension using different powers of the graph adjacency matrix to generate node embeddings characterized by a rich pool of spatiotemporal features. The resulting node embeddings can be efficiently pre-computed in an unsupervised manner, before being fed to a feed-forward decoder that learns to map the multi-scale spatiotemporal representations to predictions. The training procedure can then be parallelized node-wise by sampling the node embeddings without breaking any dependency, thus enabling scalability to large networks. Empirical results on relevant datasets show that our approach achieves results competitive with the state of the art, while dramatically reducing the computational burden.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/5e60dc704e7933e2a3e83512f345bba0debfe3f3" target='_blank'>Scalable Spatiotemporal Graph Neural Networks</a></td>
          <td>
            Andrea Cini, Ivan Marisca, F. Bianchi, C. Alippi
          </td>
          <td>2022-09-14</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>27</td>
          <td>49</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Outstanding achievements of graph neural networks for spatiotemporal time series analysis show that relational constraints introduce an effective inductive bias into neural forecasting architectures. Often, however, the relational information characterizing the underlying data-generating process is unavailable and the practitioner is left with the problem of inferring from data which relational graph to use in the subsequent processing stages. We propose novel, principled - yet practical - probabilistic score-based methods that learn the relational dependencies as distributions over graphs while maximizing end-to-end the performance at task. The proposed graph learning framework is based on consolidated variance reduction techniques for Monte Carlo score-based gradient estimation, is theoretically grounded, and, as we show, effective in practice. In this paper, we focus on the time series forecasting problem and show that, by tailoring the gradient estimators to the graph learning problem, we are able to achieve state-of-the-art performance while controlling the sparsity of the learned graph and the computational scalability. We empirically assess the effectiveness of the proposed method on synthetic and real-world benchmarks, showing that the proposed solution can be used as a stand-alone graph identification procedure as well as a graph learning component of an end-to-end forecasting architecture.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/0d01d21137a5af9f04e4b16a55a0f732cb8a540b" target='_blank'>Sparse Graph Learning from Spatiotemporal Time Series</a></td>
          <td>
            Andrea Cini, Daniele Zambon, C. Alippi
          </td>
          <td>2022-05-26</td>
          <td>J. Mach. Learn. Res.</td>
          <td>10</td>
          <td>49</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Time series forecasting with additional spatial de-pendencies has attracted a tremendous amount of research interest in social sciences, due to its importance in modern real-world applications. The Graph Neural Networks (GNN) is one of the most exciting deep learning techniques among these spatio-temporal modeling approaches. Most existing spatio-temporal GNN frameworks are based on a two-step modeling process. In such scenario, spatial and temporal dependencies are modeled in separate steps, which lead to problems such as complex architecture design, hard to scale, etc. Targeting the shortcomings of existing studies, we take both spatial and temporal dependencies from another perspective, and consider them as two heterogeneous types of edges in the graph. We propose a unified spatio-temporal GNN framework that captures both dependencies in a single step. More specifically, for each node in the graph, a unified neural network component is designed to simultaneously extract information from its sur-rounding neighbors (spatial) and its past records (temporal), which enables much easier dependency aggregation with faster execution. Experiment results demonstrate the superiority of the proposed framework over state-of-the-art (SOTA) baselines on various applications, including modeling smart cities and data-driven political science research.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/1fa11d10d7871cb7610f7e980fcf713979ce1c6e" target='_blank'>Unified Spatio-Temporal Graph Neural Networks: Data-Driven Modeling for Social Science</a></td>
          <td>
            Yifan Li, Yu Lin, Y. Gao, L. Khan
          </td>
          <td>2022-07-18</td>
          <td>2022 International Joint Conference on Neural Networks (IJCNN)</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>11</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The challenge of effectively learning inter-series correlations for multivariate time series forecasting remains a substantial and unresolved problem. Traditional deep learning models, which are largely dependent on the Transformer paradigm for modeling long sequences, often fail to integrate information from multiple time series into a coherent and universally applicable model. To bridge this gap, our paper presents ForecastGrapher, a framework reconceptualizes multivariate time series forecasting as a node regression task, providing a unique avenue for capturing the intricate temporal dynamics and inter-series correlations. Our approach is underpinned by three pivotal steps: firstly, generating custom node embeddings to reflect the temporal variations within each series; secondly, constructing an adaptive adjacency matrix to encode the inter-series correlations; and thirdly, augmenting the GNNs' expressive power by diversifying the node feature distribution. To enhance this expressive power, we introduce the Group Feature Convolution GNN (GFC-GNN). This model employs a learnable scaler to segment node features into multiple groups and applies one-dimensional convolutions with different kernel lengths to each group prior to the aggregation phase. Consequently, the GFC-GNN method enriches the diversity of node feature distribution in a fully end-to-end fashion. Through extensive experiments and ablation studies, we show that ForecastGrapher surpasses strong baselines and leading published techniques in the domain of multivariate time series forecasting.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/60560da7e2483d4f788c228ebd5e226ae1f40002" target='_blank'>ForecastGrapher: Redefining Multivariate Time Series Forecasting with Graph Neural Networks</a></td>
          <td>
            Wanlin Cai, Kun Wang, Hao Wu, Xiaoxu Chen, Yuankai Wu
          </td>
          <td>2024-05-28</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>3</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Multivariate time series (MTS) forecasting has shown great importance in numerous industries. Current state-of-the-art graph neural network (GNN)-based forecasting methods usually require both graph networks (e.g., GCN) and temporal networks (e.g., LSTM) to capture inter-series (spatial) dynamics and intra-series (temporal) dependencies, respectively. However, the uncertain compatibility of the two networks puts an extra burden on handcrafted model designs. Moreover, the separate spatial and temporal modeling naturally violates the unified spatiotemporal inter-dependencies in real world, which largely hinders the forecasting performance. To overcome these problems, we explore an interesting direction of directly applying graph networks and rethink MTS forecasting from a pure graph perspective. We first define a novel data structure, hypervariate graph, which regards each series value (regardless of variates or timestamps) as a graph node, and represents sliding windows as space-time fully-connected graphs. This perspective considers spatiotemporal dynamics unitedly and reformulates classic MTS forecasting into the predictions on hypervariate graphs. Then, we propose a novel architecture Fourier Graph Neural Network (FourierGNN) by stacking our proposed Fourier Graph Operator (FGO) to perform matrix multiplications in Fourier space. FourierGNN accommodates adequate expressiveness and achieves much lower complexity, which can effectively and efficiently accomplish the forecasting. Besides, our theoretical analysis reveals FGO's equivalence to graph convolutions in the time domain, which further verifies the validity of FourierGNN. Extensive experiments on seven datasets have demonstrated our superior performance with higher efficiency and fewer parameters compared with state-of-the-art methods.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/9dbcb0893d05e6176353eee401afa4929b570cf6" target='_blank'>FourierGNN: Rethinking Multivariate Time Series Forecasting from a Pure Graph Perspective</a></td>
          <td>
            Kun Yi, Qi Zhang, Wei Fan, Hui He, Liang Hu, Pengyang Wang, Ning An, Longbin Cao, Zhendong Niu
          </td>
          <td>2023-11-10</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>17</td>
          <td>4</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>