---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2024-07-08 06:04:55 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Tiny Time Mixers (TTMs): Fast Pre-trained Models for Enhanced Zero/Few-Shot Forecasting of Multivariate Time Series</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="We present General Time Transformer (GTT), an encoder-only style foundation model for zero-shot multivariate time series forecasting. GTT is pretrained on a large dataset of 200M high-quality time series samples spanning diverse domains. In our proposed framework, the task of multivariate time series forecasting is formulated as a channel-wise next curve shape prediction problem, where each time series sample is represented as a sequence of non-overlapping curve shapes with a unified numerical magnitude. GTT is trained to predict the next curve shape based on a window of past curve shapes in a channel-wise manner. Experimental results demonstrate that GTT exhibits superior zero-shot multivariate forecasting capabilities on unseen time series datasets, even surpassing state-of-the-art supervised baselines. Additionally, we investigate the impact of varying GTT model parameters and training dataset scales, observing that the scaling law also holds in the context of zero-shot multivariate time series forecasting.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/15ea0190593662402d0493958a53d5ca3b8e8406" target='_blank'>Only the Curve Shape Matters: Training Foundation Models for Zero-Shot Multivariate Time Series Forecasting through Next Curve Shape Prediction</a></td>
          <td>
            Cheng Feng, Long Huang, Denis Krompass
          </td>
          <td>2024-02-12</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>1</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="In recent years, generative pre-trained paradigms such as Large Language Models (LLMs) and Large Vision Models (LVMs) have achieved revolutionary advancements and widespread real-world applications. Particularly, the emergence of pre-trained LLMs-based temporal works, compared to previous deep model approaches, has demonstrated superior generalization and robustness, showcasing the potential of generative pre-trained paradigms as foundation models for time series. However, those LLMs-based works mainly focus on cross-modal research, i.e., leveraging the language capabilities of LLMs in time series contexts. Although they have achieved impressive performance, there still exist the issues of concept drift caused by differences in data distribution and inflexibility caused by misalignment of dimensions. To this end, inspired by recent work on LVMs, we reconsider the paradigm of time series modeling. In this paper, we comprehensively explore, for the first time, the effectiveness and superiority of the Generative Pre-trained Diffusion (GPD) paradigm in real-world multivariate time series forecasting (TSF). Specifically, to mitigate performance bias introduced by sophisticated networks, we propose a straightforward MLP diffusion network for unconditional modeling of time series. Then we employ a zero-shot and tuning-free method to predict (generate) future data using historical data as prompts. The GPD paradigm is established on the time series modality, effectively preventing the phenomenon of concept drift, and enabling flexible forecasting of arbitrary lengths. We demonstrate that the GPD paradigm achieves comprehensive performance and generalization comparable to current SOTA LLM-based and deep model paradigms on mainstream benchmarks and various TSF tasks. Extensive experiments validate the potential of the GPD paradigm and its assistance in future related research.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/818793961396bbe4c744932676f0ff9cc8385bed" target='_blank'>Generative Pre-Trained Diffusion Paradigm for Zero-Shot Time Series Forecasting</a></td>
          <td>
            Jiarui Yang, Tao Dai, Naiqi Li, Junxi Wu, Peiyuan Liu, Jinmin Li, Jigang Bao, Haigang Zhang, Shutao Xia
          </td>
          <td>2024-06-04</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>3</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="We introduce Chronos, a simple yet effective framework for pretrained probabilistic time series models. Chronos tokenizes time series values using scaling and quantization into a fixed vocabulary and trains existing transformer-based language model architectures on these tokenized time series via the cross-entropy loss. We pretrained Chronos models based on the T5 family (ranging from 20M to 710M parameters) on a large collection of publicly available datasets, complemented by a synthetic dataset that we generated via Gaussian processes to improve generalization. In a comprehensive benchmark consisting of 42 datasets, and comprising both classical local models and deep learning methods, we show that Chronos models: (a) significantly outperform other methods on datasets that were part of the training corpus; and (b) have comparable and occasionally superior zero-shot performance on new datasets, relative to methods that were trained specifically on them. Our results demonstrate that Chronos models can leverage time series data from diverse domains to improve zero-shot accuracy on unseen forecasting tasks, positioning pretrained models as a viable tool to greatly simplify forecasting pipelines.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/4fb78450650894091b0a55b5504a8b0a6f3dec37" target='_blank'>Chronos: Learning the Language of Time Series</a></td>
          <td>
            Abdul Fatir Ansari, Lorenzo Stella, Caner Turkmen, Xiyuan Zhang, Pedro Mercado, Huibin Shen, Oleksandr Shchur, Syama Sundar Rangapuram, Sebastian Pineda Arango, Shubham Kapoor, Jasper Zschiegner, Danielle C. Maddix, Michael W. Mahoney, Kari Torkkola, Andrew Gordon Wilson, Michael Bohlke-Schneider, Yuyang Wang
          </td>
          <td>2024-03-12</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>20</td>
          <td>18</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Over the past years, foundation models have caused a paradigm shift in machine learning due to their unprecedented capabilities for zero-shot and few-shot generalization. However, despite the success of foundation models in modalities such as natural language processing and computer vision, the development of foundation models for time series forecasting has lagged behind. We present Lag-Llama, a general-purpose foundation model for univariate probabilistic time series forecasting based on a decoder-only transformer architecture that uses lags as covariates. Lag-Llama is pretrained on a large corpus of diverse time series data from several domains, and demonstrates strong zero-shot generalization capabilities compared to a wide range of forecasting models on downstream datasets across domains. Moreover, when fine-tuned on relatively small fractions of such previously unseen datasets, Lag-Llama achieves state-of-the-art performance, outperforming prior deep learning approaches, emerging as the best general-purpose model on average. Lag-Llama serves as a strong contender to the current state-of-art in time series forecasting and paves the way for future advancements in foundation models tailored to time series data.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/7c9bb230946cf48a7b9de97fd0281f42fbc51d31" target='_blank'>Lag-Llama: Towards Foundation Models for Probabilistic Time Series Forecasting</a></td>
          <td>
            Kashif Rasul, Arjun Ashok, Andrew Robert Williams, Arian Khorasani, George Adamopoulos, Rishika Bhagwatkar, Marin Bilovs, Hena Ghonia, N. Hassen, Anderson Schneider, Sahil Garg, Alexandre Drouin, Nicolas Chapados, Yuriy Nevmyvaka, I. Rish
          </td>
          <td>2023-10-12</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>11</td>
          <td>40</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Time series data are ubiquitous across various domains, making time series analysis critically important. Traditional time series models are task-specific, featuring singular functionality and limited generalization capacity. Recently, large language foundation models have unveiled their remarkable capabilities for cross-task transferability, zero-shot/few-shot learning, and decision-making explainability. This success has sparked interest in the exploration of foundation models to solve multiple time series challenges simultaneously. There are two main research lines, namely pre-training foundation models from scratch for time series and adapting large language foundation models for time series. They both contribute to the development of a unified model that is highly generalizable, versatile, and comprehensible for time series analysis. This survey offers a 3E analytical framework for comprehensive examination of related research. Specifically, we examine existing works from three dimensions, namely Effectiveness, Efficiency and Explainability. In each dimension, we focus on discussing how related works devise tailored solution by considering unique challenges in the realm of time series. Furthermore, we provide a domain taxonomy to help followers keep up with the domain-specific advancements. In addition, we introduce extensive resources to facilitate the field's development, including datasets, open-source, time series libraries. A GitHub repository is also maintained for resource updates (https://github.com/start2020/Awesome-TimeSeries-LLM-FM).">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/522828823ff726598675971036fff01b57320578" target='_blank'>A Survey of Time Series Foundation Models: Generalizing Time Series Representation with Large Language Model</a></td>
          <td>
            Jiexia Ye, Weiqi Zhang, Ke Yi, Yongzi Yu, Ziyue Li, Jia Li, F. Tsung
          </td>
          <td>2024-05-03</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>2</td>
          <td>47</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="In this study, we present aLLM4TS, an innovative framework that adapts Large Language Models (LLMs) for time-series representation learning. Central to our approach is that we reconceive time-series forecasting as a self-supervised, multi-patch prediction task, which, compared to traditional contrastive learning or mask-and-reconstruction methods, captures temporal dynamics in patch representations more effectively. Our strategy encompasses two-stage training: (i). a causal continual pre-training phase on various time-series datasets, anchored on next patch prediction, effectively syncing LLM capabilities with the intricacies of time-series data; (ii). fine-tuning for multi-patch prediction in the targeted time-series context. A distinctive element of our framework is the patch-wise decoding layer, which departs from previous methods reliant on sequence-level decoding. Such a design directly transposes individual patches into temporal sequences, thereby significantly bolstering the model's proficiency in mastering temporal patch-based representations. aLLM4TS demonstrates superior performance in several downstream tasks, proving its effectiveness in deriving temporal representations with enhanced transferability and marking a pivotal advancement in the adaptation of LLMs for time-series analysis.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c699624c3cdd5e2ac0d1f67de733bbad1b1c0e37" target='_blank'>Multi-Patch Prediction: Adapting LLMs for Time Series Representation Learning</a></td>
          <td>
            Yuxuan Bian, Xu Ju, Jiangtong Li, Zhijian Xu, Dawei Cheng, Qiang Xu
          </td>
          <td>2024-02-07</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>4</td>
          <td>5</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Time series has been left behind in the era of pre-training and transfer learning. While research in the fields of natural language processing and computer vision are enjoying progressively larger datasets to train massive models, the most popular time series datasets consist of only tens of thousands of time steps, limiting our ability to study the effectiveness of pre-training and scaling. Recent studies have also cast doubt on the need for expressive models and scale. To alleviate these issues, we introduce three large-scale time series forecasting datasets from the cloud operations (CloudOps) domain, the largest having billions of observations, enabling further study into pre-training and scaling of time series models. We build the empirical groundwork for studying pre-training and scaling of time series models and pave the way for future research by identifying a promising candidate architecture. We show that it is a strong zero-shot baseline and benefits from further scaling, both in model and dataset size. Accompanying these datasets and results is a suite of comprehensive benchmark results comparing classical and deep learning baselines to our pre-trained method - achieving a 27% reduction in error on the largest dataset. Code and datasets can be found https://github.com/SalesforceAIResearch/pretrain-time-series-cloudops.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/dbd6463cfff26861f6f3ea8e8d19eff4e6331904" target='_blank'>Pushing the Limits of Pre-training for Time Series Forecasting in the CloudOps Domain</a></td>
          <td>
            Gerald Woo, Chenghao Liu, Akshat Kumar, Doyen Sahoo
          </td>
          <td>2023-10-08</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>6</td>
          <td>21</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Despite the impressive achievements of pre-trained models in the fields of natural language processing (NLP) and computer vision (CV), progress in the domain of time series analysis has been limited. In contrast to NLP and CV, where a single model can handle various tasks, time series analysis still relies heavily on task-specific methods for activities such as classification, anomaly detection, forecasting, and few-shot learning. The primary obstacle to developing a pre-trained model for time series analysis is the scarcity of sufficient training data. In our research, we overcome this obstacle by utilizing pre-trained models from language or CV, which have been trained on billions of data points, and apply them to time series analysis. We assess the effectiveness of the pre-trained transformer model in two ways. Initially, we maintain the original structure of the self-attention and feedforward layers in the residual blocks of the pre-trained language or image model, using the Frozen Pre-trained Transformer (FPT) for time series analysis with the addition of projection matrices for input and output. Additionally, we introduce four unique adapters, designed specifically for downstream tasks based on the pre-trained model, including forecasting and anomaly detection. These adapters are further enhanced with efficient parameter tuning, resulting in superior performance compared to all state-of-the-art methods.Our comprehensive experimental studies reveal that (a) the simple FPT achieves top-tier performance across various time series analysis tasks; and (b) fine-tuning the FPT with the custom-designed adapters can further elevate its performance, outshining specialized task-specific models.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/15bfe54223d28c74f9e39960f7ff1d03167e285f" target='_blank'>One Fits All: Universal Time Series Analysis by Pretrained LM and Specially Designed Adaptors</a></td>
          <td>
            Tian Zhou, Peisong Niu, Xue Wang, Liang Sun, Rong Jin
          </td>
          <td>2023-11-24</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>2</td>
          <td>7</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Predicting future values in multivariate time series is vital across various domains. This work explores the use of large language models (LLMs) for this task. However, LLMs typically handle one-dimensional data. We introduce MultiCast, a zero-shot LLM-based approach for multivariate time series forecasting. It allows LLMs to receive multivariate time series as input, through three novel token multiplexing solutions that effectively reduce dimensionality while preserving key repetitive patterns. Additionally, a quantization scheme helps LLMs to better learn these patterns, while significantly reducing token use for practical applications. We showcase the performance of our approach in terms of RMSE and execution time against state-of-the-art approaches on three real-world datasets.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/695663f05473270744f228e9beeb7578ceee7c68" target='_blank'>MultiCast: Zero-Shot Multivariate Time Series Forecasting Using LLMs</a></td>
          <td>
            Georgios Chatzigeorgakidis, Konstantinos Lentzos, Dimitrios Skoutas
          </td>
          <td>2024-05-13</td>
          <td>2024 IEEE 40th International Conference on Data Engineering Workshops (ICDEW)</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>7</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>