---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2025-08-25 06:12:19 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Learning sparse nonlinear dynamics via mixed-integer optimization</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="Discovering nonlinear differential equations from empirical data is a significant challenge, often requiring manual parameter tuning. This paper introduces a machine learning method integrating denoising techniques, sparse regression, and bootstrap confidence intervals, which shows consistent accuracy in identifying 3D dynamical systems with moderate data size and high signal quality. Discovering nonlinear differential equations that describe system dynamics from empirical data is a fundamental challenge in contemporary science. While current methods can identify such equations, they often require extensive manual hyperparameter tuning, limiting their applicability. Here, we propose a methodology to identify dynamical laws by integrating denoising techniques to smooth the signal, sparse regression to identify the relevant parameters, and bootstrap confidence intervals to quantify the uncertainty of the estimates. We evaluate our method on well-known ordinary differential equations with an ensemble of random initial conditions, time series of increasing length, and varying signal-to-noise ratios. Our algorithm consistently identifies three-dimensional systems, given moderately-sized time series and high levels of signal quality relative to background noise. By accurately discovering dynamical systems automatically, our methodology has the potential to impact the understanding of complex systems, especially in fields where data are abundant, but developing mathematical models demands considerable effort.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/1f18c5206491626d36c2271aaf491dbc945f6247" target='_blank'>Automatically discovering ordinary differential equations from data with sparse regression</a></td>
          <td>
            Kevin Egan, Weizhen Li, Rui Carvalho
          </td>
          <td>2024-01-09</td>
          <td>Communications Physics</td>
          <td>22</td>
          <td>2</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Differential-algebraic equations (DAEs) integrate ordinary differential equations (ODEs) with algebraic constraints, providing a fundamental framework for developing models of dynamical systems characterized by timescale separation, conservation laws, and physical constraints. While sparse optimization has revolutionized model development by allowing data-driven discovery of parsimonious models from a library of possible equations, existing approaches for dynamical systems assume DAEs can be reduced to ODEs by eliminating variables before model discovery. This assumption limits the applicability of such methods to DAE systems with unknown constraints and time scales. We introduce Sparse Optimization for Differential-Algebraic Systems (SODAs), a data-driven method for the identification of DAEs in their explicit form. By discovering the algebraic and dynamic components sequentially without prior identification of the algebraic variables, this approach leads to a sequence of convex optimization problems and has the advantage of discovering interpretable models that preserve the structure of the underlying physical system. To this end, SODAs improves numerical stability when handling high correlations between library terms -- caused by near-perfect algebraic relationships -- by iteratively refining the conditioning of the candidate library. We demonstrate the performance of our method on biological, mechanical, and electrical systems, showcasing its robustness to noise in both simulated time series and real-time experimental data.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/dd7bb98ebae72bee11b115c7a996ac755bd9e92b" target='_blank'>SODAs: Sparse Optimization for the Discovery of Differential and Algebraic Equations</a></td>
          <td>
            Manu Jayadharan, Christina Catlett, A. Montanari, Niall M. Mangan
          </td>
          <td>2025-03-08</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>8</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Significance Understanding dynamic constraints and balances in nature has facilitated rapid development of knowledge and enabled technology, including aircraft, combustion engines, satellites, and electrical power. This work develops a novel framework to discover governing equations underlying a dynamical system simply from data measurements, leveraging advances in sparsity techniques and machine learning. The resulting models are parsimonious, balancing model complexity with descriptive ability while avoiding overfitting. There are many critical data-driven problems, such as understanding cognition from neural recordings, inferring climate patterns, determining stability of financial markets, predicting and suppressing the spread of disease, and controlling turbulence for greener transportation and energy. With abundant data and elusive laws, data-driven discovery of dynamics will continue to play an important role in these efforts. Extracting governing equations from data is a central challenge in many diverse areas of science and engineering. Data are abundant whereas models often remain elusive, as in climate science, neuroscience, ecology, finance, and epidemiology, to name only a few examples. In this work, we combine sparsity-promoting techniques and machine learning with nonlinear dynamical systems to discover governing equations from noisy measurement data. The only assumption about the structure of the model is that there are only a few important terms that govern the dynamics, so that the equations are sparse in the space of possible functions; this assumption holds for many physical systems in an appropriate basis. In particular, we use sparse regression to determine the fewest terms in the dynamic governing equations required to accurately represent the data. This results in parsimonious models that balance accuracy with model complexity to avoid overfitting. We demonstrate the algorithm on a wide range of problems, from simple canonical systems, including linear and nonlinear oscillators and the chaotic Lorenz system, to the fluid vortex shedding behind an obstacle. The fluid example illustrates the ability of this method to discover the underlying dynamics of a system that took experts in the community nearly 30 years to resolve. We also show that this method generalizes to parameterized systems and systems that are time-varying or have external forcing.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/5d150cec2775f9bc863760448f14104cc8f42368" target='_blank'>Discovering governing equations from data by sparse identification of nonlinear dynamical systems</a></td>
          <td>
            S. Brunton, J. Proctor, J. Kutz
          </td>
          <td>2015-09-11</td>
          <td>Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences</td>
          <td>4036</td>
          <td>72</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Modern societies have an abundance of data yet good system models are rare. Unfortunately, many of the current system identification and machine learning techniques fail to generalize outside of the training set, producing models that violate basic physical laws. This work proposes a novel method for the Sparse Identification of Nonlinear Dynamics with Side Information (SINDy-SI). SINDy-SI is an iterative method that uses Sum-of-Squares (SOS) programming to learn optimally fitted models while guaranteeing that the learned model satisfies side information, such as symmetries and physical laws. Guided by the principle of Occam's razor, that the simplest or most regularized best fitted model is typically the superior choice, during each iteration SINDy-SI prunes the basis functions associated with small coefficients, yielding a sparse dynamical model upon termination. Through several numerical experiments we will show how the combination of side information constraints and sparse polynomial representation cultivates dynamical models that obey known physical laws while displaying impressive generalized performance beyond the training set.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/13a6b8f2d60ef8006dfe6e6bed42df96f773a323" target='_blank'>Sparse Identification of Nonlinear Dynamics with Side Information (SINDy-SI)</a></td>
          <td>
            Gabriel F. Machado, Morgan Jones
          </td>
          <td>2023-10-06</td>
          <td>2024 American Control Conference (ACC)</td>
          <td>4</td>
          <td>2</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Automated data-driven modeling, the process of directly discovering the governing equations of a system from data, is increasingly being used across the scientific community. PySINDy is a Python package that provides tools for applying the sparse identification of nonlinear dynamics (SINDy) approach to data-driven model discovery. In this major update to PySINDy, we implement several advanced features that enable the discovery of more general differential equations from noisy and limited data. The library of candidate terms is extended for the identification of actuated systems, partial differential equations (PDEs), and implicit differential equations. Robust formulations, including the integral form of SINDy and ensembling techniques, are also implemented to improve performance for real-world data. Finally, we provide a range of new optimization algorithms, including several sparse regression techniques and algorithms to enforce and promote inequality constraints and stability. Together, these updates enable entirely new SINDy model discovery capabilities that have not been reported in the literature, such as constrained PDE identification and ensembling with different sparse regression optimizers.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/433ba35ced5d3f47fa2688c81a60363a74193449" target='_blank'>PySINDy: A comprehensive Python package for robust sparse system identification</a></td>
          <td>
            A. Kaptanoglu, Brian M. de Silva, Urban Fasel, Kadierdan Kaheman, Jared L. Callaham, Charles B. Delahunt, Kathleen P. Champion, Jean-Christophe Loiseau, J. Kutz, S. Brunton
          </td>
          <td>2021-11-12</td>
          <td>J. Open Source Softw.</td>
          <td>157</td>
          <td>72</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Sparse regression has emerged as a popular technique for learning dynamical systems from temporal data, beginning with the SINDy (Sparse Identification of Nonlinear Dynamics) framework proposed by arXiv:1509.03580. Quantifying the uncertainty inherent in differential equations learned from data remains an open problem, thus we propose leveraging recent advances in statistical inference for sparse regression to address this issue. Focusing on systems of ordinary differential equations (ODEs), SINDy assumes that each equation is a parsimonious linear combination of a few candidate functions, such as polynomials, and uses methods such as sequentially-thresholded least squares or the Lasso to identify a small subset of these functions that govern the system's dynamics. We instead employ bias-corrected versions of the Lasso and ridge regression estimators, as well as an empirical Bayes variable selection technique known as SEMMS, to estimate each ODE as a linear combination of terms that are statistically significant. We demonstrate through simulations that this approach allows us to recover the functional terms that correctly describe the dynamics more often than existing methods that do not account for uncertainty.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/443f1abc41c983d0fd9fa79d3fbef0ef8125d892" target='_blank'>Sparse reconstruction of ordinary differential equations with inference</a></td>
          <td>
            S. Venkatraman, Sumanta Basu, M. Wells
          </td>
          <td>2023-08-17</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>41</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Harnessing data to discover the underlying governing laws or equations that describe the behavior of complex physical systems can significantly advance our modeling, simulation and understanding of such systems in various science and engineering disciplines. This work introduces a novel approach called physics-informed neural network with sparse regression to discover governing partial differential equations from scarce and noisy data for nonlinear spatiotemporal systems. In particular, this discovery approach seamlessly integrates the strengths of deep neural networks for rich representation learning, physics embedding, automatic differentiation and sparse regression to approximate the solution of system variables, compute essential derivatives, as well as identify the key derivative terms and parameters that form the structure and explicit expression of the equations. The efficacy and robustness of this method are demonstrated, both numerically and experimentally, on discovering a variety of partial differential equation systems with different levels of data scarcity and noise accounting for different initial/boundary conditions. The resulting computational framework shows the potential for closed-form model discovery in practical applications where large and accurate datasets are intractable to capture. Recovery of underlying governing laws or equations describing the evolution of complex systems from data can be challenging if dataset is damaged or incomplete. The authors propose a learning approach which allows to discover governing partial differential equations from scarce and noisy data.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e596988b1df3a0bc78bf72c0bfdb21c85eaab6c9" target='_blank'>Physics-informed learning of governing equations from scarce data</a></td>
          <td>
            Zhao Chen, Yang Liu, Hao Sun
          </td>
          <td>2020-05-05</td>
          <td>Nature Communications</td>
          <td>421</td>
          <td>14</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Discovering the governing equations of physical systems from data is crucial for our deep understanding and effective modeling of such systems. In this paper, we propose a framework that integrates physics-informed neural networks (PINNs) with sparse regression to discover partial differential control equations from scarce and noisy data. Specifically, the framework effectively reduces the size of the candidate function library through dimensional verification while leveraging the powerful nonlinear fitting capabilities and automatic differentiation features of deep neural networks to model physical systems and compute candidate functions. We investigate and validate the effectiveness and robustness of the proposed method in discovering equations from data using three examples: the Burgers equation, the heat equation, and the Navier-Stokes vorticity equation. Comparisons with other methods that combine PINNs with sparse regression based on overcomplete libraries demonstrate that our approach achieves better discovery accuracy and smaller prediction errors. Additionally, we discuss various details of the framework, such as the process of discovering equations and the influence of measurement points and residual points on the results.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/86aa70f4a2be3f86562766249cd726a65ef66604" target='_blank'>Physics-based discovery of governing equations from scarce and noisy data.</a></td>
          <td>
            Liang Wang, Tingwei Ji, Yunzhe Huang, Hongjie Zhou, Fangfang Xie
          </td>
          <td>2025-05-27</td>
          <td>Physical review. E</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>15</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="PySINDy is a Python package for the discovery of governing dynamical systems models from data. In particular, PySINDy provides tools for applying the sparse identification of nonlinear dynamics (SINDy) (Brunton et al. 2016) approach to model discovery. In this work we provide a brief description of the mathematical underpinnings of SINDy, an overview and demonstration of the features implemented in PySINDy (with code examples), practical advice for users, and a list of potential extensions to PySINDy. Software is available at this https URL.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/3e89a9f1301a46d011ff04d7c05ae5134f05961a" target='_blank'>PySINDy: A Python package for the Sparse Identification of Nonlinear Dynamics from Data.</a></td>
          <td>
            Brian M. de Silva, Kathleen P. Champion, M. Quade, Jean-Christophe Loiseau, J. Kutz, S. Brunton
          </td>
          <td>2020-04-17</td>
          <td>arXiv: Dynamical Systems</td>
          <td>63</td>
          <td>72</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Data-driven modeling frameworks that adopt sparse regression techniques, such as sparse identification of nonlinear dynamics (SINDy) and its modifications, are developed to resolve difficulties in extracting underlying dynamics from experimental data. In contrast to neural-network-based methods, these methods are designed to obtain white-box analytical models. In this work, we incorporate the concept of SINDy and knowledge in the field of classical mechanics to identify interpretable and sparse expressions of total energy and the Lagrangian that shelters the hidden dynamics. Moreover, our method (hereafter referred as Lagrangian-SINDy) is developed to use knowledge of simple systems that form the system being analyzed to ensure the likelihood of correct results and to improve the learning pace. Lagrangian-SINDy is highly accurate in discovering interpretable dynamics via energy-related physical quantities. Its performance is validated with three popular multi-DOF nonlinear dynamical systems, namely the spherical pendulum, double pendulum and cart-pendulum system. Comparisons with other SINDy-based methods are made and Lagrangian-SINDy is found to provide the most compact analytical models.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/7d7e107bcb40ed9596642ff12cc60f33f3eb47e2" target='_blank'>Discovering Interpretable Dynamics by Sparsity Promotion on Energy and the Lagrangian</a></td>
          <td>
            H. Chu, M. Hayashibe
          </td>
          <td>2020-01-31</td>
          <td>IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters</td>
          <td>27</td>
          <td>26</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>