---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2025-01-13 06:05:44 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>UniTS: A Unified Multi-Task Time Series Model</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="Deep learning has contributed remarkably to the advancement of time series analysis. Still, deep models can encounter performance bottlenecks in real-world data-scarce scenarios, which can be concealed due to the performance saturation with small models on current benchmarks. Meanwhile, large models have demonstrated great powers in these scenarios through large-scale pre-training. Continuous progress has been achieved with the emergence of large language models, exhibiting unprecedented abilities such as few-shot generalization, scalability, and task generality, which are however absent in small deep models. To change the status quo of training scenario-specific small models from scratch, this paper aims at the early development of large time series models (LTSM). During pre-training, we curate large-scale datasets with up to 1 billion time points, unify heterogeneous time series into single-series sequence (S3) format, and develop the GPT-style architecture toward LTSMs. To meet diverse application needs, we convert forecasting, imputation, and anomaly detection of time series into a unified generative task. The outcome of this study is a Time Series Transformer (Timer), which is generative pre-trained by next token prediction and adapted to various downstream tasks with promising capabilities as an LTSM. Code and datasets are available at: https://github.com/thuml/Large-Time-Series-Model.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/73f58b90697f957832f5090946894480849dea3a" target='_blank'>Timer: Generative Pre-trained Transformers Are Large Time Series Models</a></td>
          <td>
            Yong Liu, Haoran Zhang, Chenyu Li, Xiangdong Huang, Jianmin Wang, Mingsheng Long
          </td>
          <td>2024-02-04</td>
          <td>ArXiv, DBLP</td>
          <td>26</td>
          <td>68</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="This work studies the problem of time series analysis with generalist (or foundation) models, which are models trained across many data domains. Drawing inspiration from the widespread success of large language models, we consider the simple strategy of discretely tokenizing time series data drawn from a myriad of datasets via self-supervision, then using the fixed tokenization to solve a variety of tasks across many data domains. Canonically, time series models are either trained on a single dataset or built in a task-specific manner (e.g., a forecasting-only model), where many use patches of time as inputs to the model. As such, performant generalist, discrete representation time series models explored across many tasks are of value. Our method, TOkenized Time Series EMbeddings (TOTEM), produces such generalist time series models with minimal or no fine-tuning while exhibiting strong zero-shot performance. We evaluate TOTEM extensively over nearly 500 experiments on three commonly-studied time series tasks with real-world data: imputation (17 baselines, 12 datasets), anomaly detection (19 baselines, 25 datasets), and forecasting (14 baselines, 12 datasets). We conclude that TOTEM matches or outperforms existing state-of-the-art models in both the canonical specialist setting (i.e., training one model on one domain) as well as the generalist setting (i.e., training a single model on many domains), which demonstrates the efficacy of tokenization for general time series analysis. The open-source implementation is available here: https://github.com/SaberaTalukder/TOTEM; a video summary is available here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OqrCpdb6MJk.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/f9f09c782155ca4f2ae4b6ffcf28514b439226cd" target='_blank'>TOTEM: TOkenized Time Series EMbeddings for General Time Series Analysis</a></td>
          <td>
            Sabera Talukder, Yisong Yue, Georgia Gkioxari
          </td>
          <td>2024-02-26</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>8</td>
          <td>4</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="In natural language processing and computer vision, self-supervised pre-training on large datasets unlocks foundational model capabilities across domains and tasks. However, this potential has not yet been realised in time series analysis, where existing methods disregard the heterogeneous nature of time series characteristics. Time series are prevalent in many domains, including medicine, engineering, natural sciences, and finance, but their characteristics vary significantly in terms of variate count, inter-variate relationships, temporal dynamics, and sampling frequency. This inherent heterogeneity across domains prevents effective pre-training on large time series corpora. To address this issue, we introduce OTiS, an open model for general time series analysis, that has been specifically designed to handle multi-domain heterogeneity. We propose a novel pre-training paradigm including a tokeniser with learnable domain-specific signatures, a dual masking strategy to capture temporal causality, and a normalised cross-correlation loss to model long-range dependencies. Our model is pre-trained on a large corpus of 640,187 samples and 11 billion time points spanning 8 distinct domains, enabling it to analyse time series from any (unseen) domain. In comprehensive experiments across 15 diverse applications - including classification, regression, and forecasting - OTiS showcases its ability to accurately capture domain-specific data characteristics and demonstrates its competitiveness against state-of-the-art baselines. Our code and pre-trained weights are publicly available at https://github.com/oetu/otis.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/67381675766ffe648e1346cb19d0d7318366bbbe" target='_blank'>Towards Generalisable Time Series Understanding Across Domains</a></td>
          <td>
            Özgün Turgut, Philip Müller, M. Menten, Daniel Rueckert
          </td>
          <td>2024-10-09</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>15</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="We present Timer-XL, a generative Transformer for unified time series forecasting. To uniformly predict 1D and 2D time series, we generalize next token prediction, predominantly adopted for causal generation of 1D sequences, to multivariate next token prediction. The proposed paradigm uniformly formulates various forecasting scenarios as a long-context generation problem. We opt for the generative Transformer, which can capture global-range and causal dependencies while providing contextual flexibility, to implement unified forecasting on univariate series characterized by non-stationarity, multivariate time series with complicated dynamics and correlations, and covariate-informed contexts that include both endogenous and exogenous time series. Technically, we propose a universal TimeAttention to facilitate generative Transformers on multiple time series, which can effectively capture fine-grained intra- and inter-series dependencies of flattened time series tokens (patches), and is further enhanced by deftly designed position embeddings for the temporal and variable dimensions. Timer-XL achieves state-of-the-art performance across challenging forecasting benchmarks through a unified approach. Based on large-scale pre-training, Timer-XL also demonstrates notable zero-shot performance, making it a promising architecture for large time series models.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/518ecc43f230938e62b1f237ce9a0ef0d1f6d449" target='_blank'>Timer-XL: Long-Context Transformers for Unified Time Series Forecasting</a></td>
          <td>
            Yong Liu, Guo Qin, Xiangdong Huang, Jianmin Wang, Mingsheng Long
          </td>
          <td>2024-10-07</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>68</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Time-series data exists in every corner of real-world systems and services, ranging from satellites in the sky to wearable devices on human bodies. Learning representations by extracting and inferring valuable information from these time series is crucial for understanding the complex dynamics of particular phenomena and enabling informed decisions. With the learned representations, we can perform numerous downstream analyses more effectively. Among several approaches, deep learning has demonstrated remarkable performance in extracting hidden patterns and features from time-series data without manual feature engineering. This survey first presents a novel taxonomy based on three fundamental elements in designing state-of-the-art universal representation learning methods for time series. According to the proposed taxonomy, we comprehensively review existing studies and discuss their intuitions and insights into how these methods enhance the quality of learned representations. Finally, as a guideline for future studies, we summarize commonly used experimental setups and datasets and discuss several promising research directions. An up-to-date corresponding resource is available at https://github.com/itouchz/awesome-deep-time-series-representations.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/72f38d513a8ab095a3d4f459958cbb31b1f7cdc4" target='_blank'>Universal Time-Series Representation Learning: A Survey</a></td>
          <td>
            Patara Trirat, Yooju Shin, Junhyeok Kang, Youngeun Nam, Jihye Na, Minyoung Bae, Joeun Kim, Byunghyun Kim, Jae-Gil Lee
          </td>
          <td>2024-01-08</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>7</td>
          <td>7</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="We introduce Chronos, a simple yet effective framework for pretrained probabilistic time series models. Chronos tokenizes time series values using scaling and quantization into a fixed vocabulary and trains existing transformer-based language model architectures on these tokenized time series via the cross-entropy loss. We pretrained Chronos models based on the T5 family (ranging from 20M to 710M parameters) on a large collection of publicly available datasets, complemented by a synthetic dataset that we generated via Gaussian processes to improve generalization. In a comprehensive benchmark consisting of 42 datasets, and comprising both classical local models and deep learning methods, we show that Chronos models: (a) significantly outperform other methods on datasets that were part of the training corpus; and (b) have comparable and occasionally superior zero-shot performance on new datasets, relative to methods that were trained specifically on them. Our results demonstrate that Chronos models can leverage time series data from diverse domains to improve zero-shot accuracy on unseen forecasting tasks, positioning pretrained models as a viable tool to greatly simplify forecasting pipelines.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/02fa77e4f355198cb4270f6d4a07517bf09c46dd" target='_blank'>Chronos: Learning the Language of Time Series</a></td>
          <td>
            Abdul Fatir Ansari, Lorenzo Stella, Caner Turkmen, Xiyuan Zhang, Pedro Mercado, Huibin Shen, Oleksandr Shchur, Syama Sundar Rangapuram, Sebastian Pineda Arango, Shubham Kapoor, Jasper Zschiegner, Danielle C. Maddix, Michael W. Mahoney, Kari Torkkola, Andrew Gordon Wilson, Michael Bohlke-Schneider, Yuyang Wang
          </td>
          <td>2024-03-12</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>88</td>
          <td>18</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Large pre-trained models have been vital in recent advancements in domains like language and vision, making model training for individual downstream tasks more efficient and provide superior performance. However, tackling time-series analysis tasks usually involves designing and training a separate model from scratch leveraging training data and domain expertise specific to the task. We tackle a significant challenge for pre-training a foundational time-series model from multi-domain time-series datasets: extracting semantically useful tokenized inputs to the model across heterogenous time-series from different domains. We propose Large Pre-trained Time-series Models (LPTM) that introduces a novel method of adaptive segmentation that automatically identifies optimal dataset-specific segmentation strategy during pre-training. This enables LPTM to perform similar to or better than domain-specific state-of-art model when fine-tuned to different downstream time-series analysis tasks and under zero-shot settings. LPTM achieves superior forecasting and time-series classification results taking up to 40% less data and 50% less training time compared to state-of-art baselines. Code: www.github.com/AdityaLab/Samay">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/d8140a17dfc21b1e3300158cb0676600136f14b1" target='_blank'>Large Pre-trained time series models for cross-domain Time series analysis tasks</a></td>
          <td>
            Harshavardhan Kamarthi, B. A. Prakash
          </td>
          <td>2023-11-19</td>
          <td>ArXiv</td>
          <td>4</td>
          <td>9</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>